1. What is the Simon Fraser University Indigenous Student Centre’s Elders Program?
2. What is the difference between an Elder and a Knowledge Sharer?
3. What is the purpose of having an Elder or Knowledge Sharer at an event?
4. How can including an Elder or Knowledge Sharer benefit our department or event?
5. What is the difference between a territorial welcome and a land acknowledgment?
6. How do I book an Elder or Knowledge Sharer for my event?
7. What information do I need to provide when making a booking request?
8. How far in advance should I submit a booking request?
9. Can I request a specific Elder or Knowledge Sharer with expertise relevant to my event?
10. What types of events are suitable for Elder or Knowledge Sharer participation?
11. Are Elders or Knowledge Sharers available for long-term projects or only one-time events?
12. Can Elders or Knowledge Sharers participate in virtual events?
13. Are Elders or Knowledge Sharers available for video recordings to be used on websites or during events?
14. Are Elders or Knowledge Sharers available for events outside of SFU?
15. What areas of expertise do the Elders and Knowledge Sharers in the program have?
16. How does the process work for matching an Elder or Knowledge Sharer to our event’s theme?
17. Do departments need to provide transportation for Elders or Knowledge Sharers?
18. What are the requirements for hosting an Elder or Knowledge Sharer at an event?
19. How long can we expect an Elder or Knowledge Sharer to stay at our event?
20. What should we do if our event's schedule changes after booking an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?
21. How are Elders or Knowledge Sharers briefed about the events they attend?
22. Can we promote the participation of Elders or Knowledge Sharers through our marketing channels?
23. Why is it customary to present a gift to an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?
24. What are the costs associated with booking an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?
25. What is the cancellation policy for booking an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?
26. When should payment be provided to the Elder or Knowledge Sharer?
27. What happens if an Elder or Knowledge Sharer becomes unavailable on the day of the event?
28. How can we give feedback about our experience with the Elder or Knowledge Sharer?
29. Who can I contact for further inquiries about the Elders Program?