1. What is the purpose of the Simon Fraser University, Indigenous Student Centre’s Elders Program?  
2. How does the ISC differentiate between an Elder and a Knowledge Sharer?  
3. Why is it beneficial to have an Elder or Knowledge Sharer at an event?  
4. What is the difference between a territorial welcome and a land acknowledgment?  
5. How can I book an Elder or Knowledge Sharer for my department’s event?  
6. What information do I need to provide when making a booking request?  
7. How far in advance should I submit a request to book an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?  
8. Can I request a specific Elder or Knowledge Sharer with expertise relevant to my event?  
9. What types of events are suitable for Elder or Knowledge Sharer participation?  
10. Are Elders or Knowledge Sharers available for long-term projects or only one-time events?  
11. Are Elders or Knowledge Sharers available for events outside regular university hours?  
12. Can Elders or Knowledge Sharers participate in virtual events or only in-person?  
13. Are Elders or Knowledge Sharers available for video recordings to be used on websites or during events?  
14. Can Elders or Knowledge Sharers participate in events external to SFU?  
15. What areas of expertise do the Elders and Knowledge Sharers in the program have?  
16. How does the ISC match an Elder or Knowledge Sharer’s expertise with an event’s theme?  
17. Do departments need to provide transportation for Elders or Knowledge Sharers?  
18. What are the requirements for hosting an Elder or Knowledge Sharer at an event?  
19. How long can we expect an Elder or Knowledge Sharer to stay at our event?  
20. What should we do if our event’s schedule changes after booking an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?  
21. How are Elders or Knowledge Sharers prepared or briefed for their events?  
22. Can we promote the participation of Elders or Knowledge Sharers in our marketing channels?  
23. Why is it customary to present a gift to an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?  
24. What are the costs associated with booking an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?  
25. What is the cancellation policy for booking an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?  
26. When should we submit payment for an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?  
27. What happens if an Elder or Knowledge Sharer becomes unavailable on the day of the event?  
28. How can we provide feedback about our experience with an Elder or Knowledge Sharer?