1.
Syexwaliya is a supporter of families and shares cultural teachings and protocols within and outside her community. Her role is to ensure that Squamish culture, language, and ceremonies continue to be the cornerstone of the Nation for future generations, and to promote the use of her snichim (language) by all families and future generations in their daily lives and ceremonies.

2.
She supports sharing cultural teachings and protocols within and outside of her community.

3.
Syexwaliya emphasizes the importance of preserving Squamish culture and language to ensure they continue to be the cornerstone of the Nation for future generations and to carry on the culture and language in daily life and ceremonies.

4.
Due to external commitments, Elder Syexwaliya currently has limited capacity to attend events.

5.
Auntie Patti (Carey) Williams is an Elder from the Nlaka’pamux Nation, Skuppah Band. She acquired her First Nations status in 2011 through the Gender Equity in the Indian Registration Act (Bill C-3). She is the mother of two children and an Auntie to many, believing in the importance of having more Aunties and Uncles in circles. She is retired from S.D. No.42 Maple Ridge-Pitt Meadows School District, where she worked as an Indigenous Support Worker for 22 years. Currently, she is a Natural Fibres Artist, creating jewelry and art from natural materials like cedar bark and pine needles.

6.
Auntie Patti creates jewelry and other art using natural materials such as inner red cedar bark and pine needles.

7.
Students can contact Auntie Patti for support or sessions by reaching out via email at isc_elder@sfu.ca.

8.
Pixie currently sits as FVMA’s President, 2SLGBTGGIA+ rep, and holds portfolios for health and housing. She is also involved with the Fraser Valley Métis Association and other community groups within Abbotsford BC. She works to strengthen the Métis Nation through her community engagement and advocacy.

9.
Pixie focuses their work in community support, Indigenous support, and advocacy for 2SLGBTQQIA+ peoples. They are involved in initiatives such as serving as FVMA’s President, representing 2SLGBTGGIA+ interests, working on the National Action Plan for MMIWGs and 2SLGBTQQIA+ peoples, and supporting various boards and committees within the city of Abbotsford BC.

10.
Students can reach out to iscelder@sfu.ca to learn more or to support internal SFU events.

11.
Jackie Gonzales is a Skwxwú7mesh/Musqueam matriarch from the Village of Eslh7an. She has spent over 45 years leading the way in cultural revitalization for her community, particularly with youth and families, focusing on ceremony and protocol.

12.
Jackie has spent over 45 years leading cultural revitalization for her community, particularly with youth and families, focusing on ceremony and protocol. She leads from her lived experience of ceremonial, longhouse, and family connections. She is the mother of three, with six grandchildren and two great grandchildren.

13.
Due to external commitments.

14.
Russell Wallace is an award-winning composer, producer, and traditional singer from the Stʼatʼimc and Lil’wat Nation. He has learned traditional singing from his mom Flora Wallace and his music can be heard on soundtracks for film, television, and theatre/dance productions across Canada and the U.S. He is a founding member of the Aboriginal Writers Collective West Coast and an alumnus of the UBC Creative Writing program. Wallace has written poetry, short fiction, theatre, and music theatre. He has a background in theatre as an alumnus of Spirit Song Native Theatre and Capilano University, and has worked with Spider Woman Theatre, Centre for Indigenous Theatre, Firehall Arts Centre, Arts Club Theatre, and others. Additionally, he has experience in radio, print media, photography, and electronic music festivals. As a senior artist, he can facilitate workshops in creativity, singing, writing, and theatre.

15.
Workshops in creativity, singing, writing, and theatre.

16.
Friday June 20, 2025, AQ 3144

17.
Terri Mae Galligos belongs to the Tla’amin Nation with strong, solid and sacred matrilineal connections to her community.

18.
The name Setlakus was gifted to Terri Mae to remember who she is and where she comes from. The name Graunty is an additional name she earned, reflecting her connection to her culture and community.

19.
Bachelor of Education and Master of Education from UBC

20.
Terri Mae has limited capacity to provide student support or to engage in community activities. She is available evenings and weekends, as well as July and August for Internal SFU Events.

21.
Marny is from the Musqueam band of the Coast Salish people.

22.
Marny is the Program Coordinator and Instructor for NITEP UBC’s Indigenous Bachelor of Education cohort, teaching introductory Indigenous education courses. She is also the UBC/Musqueam Language Committee and First Nations’ Endangered Language Program Instructor, teaching the traditional Musqueam language course, hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm̓.

23.
Marny values the connection to Indigenous languages because it gives value, honor, and a sense of identity, which helps to cement Native Indigenous people in place and culture.

24.
Students can contact Elder Marny Point by reaching out via email at isc_elder@sfu.ca.

25.
The traditional territories acknowledged by Simon Fraser University represent the unceded lands of the Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, and Tsawwassen peoples on whose ancestral lands the university's campuses are located.

