1.
June 21

2.
June is celebrated as National Indigenous History Month in Canada, recognizing and honoring the cultures, contributions, and histories of First Nations, Inuit, and Métis peoples. It includes the celebration of National Indigenous Peoples Day on June 21, which provides an opportunity to acknowledge Indigenous Peoples and learn about their traditions and ways of life.

3.
Roméo LeBlanc

4.
Celebrate National Indigenous History Month and National Indigenous Peoples Day, learn about their histories, cultures, and ways of life, participate in events like arts performances, nature walks, and Indigenous markets, and support Indigenous artists and vendors.

5.
1. Educate yourself on the significance of an item or design.  
2. Buy from Indigenous artists.

6.
1. Educate yourself on the significance of an item/design.  
2. Buy from Indigenous artists.

7.
ArtsLIVE performances featuring Indigenous talent, a nature walk led by Gary George, and the inaugural Indigenous Market at SFU.

8.
Kevin Kelly and Michael Kelly-Gabriel  
Eagle Song Dancers  
Madeline McCallum  
Sandy Scofield  
Wild Moccasin Dancers  
Git Hayetsk Dancers  
Alex Wells  
Nyla Carpentier

9.
A nature walk led by Gary George.

10.
Lhuḵw’lhuḵw’áyten is the Sḵwx̱wú7mesh placename for Burnaby Mountain, a land significant to Indigenous Peoples. It was involved in the celebrations through a nature walk led by Gary George, allowing participants to reconnect with the land.

11.
To showcase the gifts of Indigenous vendors, artists, makers, and entrepreneurs.

12.
30+

13.
8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

14.
Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen

15.
The university respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories the campuses reside.

