1.
Healthy eating is a pattern of eating that contributes to our best possible health.

2.
Baby’s Best Chance

3.
- Learn tips and find resources on how to support your mental wellbeing.
- Call 8-1-1 to speak to a health service navigator who can help you find health information and services.
- Connect with a registered nurse, registered dietitian, qualified exercise professional, or pharmacist for help managing your health concerns.
- Use Video Relay Services (VRS) or Teletypewriter (TTY) if you are deaf or hard of hearing.
- Call 8-1-1 to talk to a pharmacist about your medication questions.
- Get a family doctor or nurse practitioner in your community.
- Learn tips for staying healthy and meeting your health needs as you age.

4.
Information about health topics, medical tests, and decision-making tools.

5.
Register to get a family doctor or nurse practitioner in your community by calling 8-1-1.

6.
- Tips for staying healthy and meeting health needs as you age:
- Register to get a family doctor or nurse practitioner in your community.
- Learn about prescription and over-the-counter medications for all types of illnesses.
- People are living longer than ever before. Learn tips for staying healthy and meeting your health needs as you age.

7.
By calling 8-1-1, you can speak to a health service navigator who can help you find health information and services. They can also connect you with a registered nurse, registered dietitian, qualified exercise professional, or pharmacist. Translation services are available in over 130 languages.

8.
Individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing can access HealthLinkBC 8-1-1 using Video Relay Services (VRS) or Teletypewriter (TTY).

9.
Health information, help navigating the health care system, finding health services, connecting with a registered nurse, registered dietitian, qualified exercise professional, or pharmacist.

10.
Registered nurses can help with discussing symptoms and procedures, recommending whether to see a health care provider in person, and answering health questions.

11.
Registered dietitians at HealthLink BC can answer healthy eating and nutrition questions.

12.
Qualified exercise professionals at HealthLink BC can prescribe physical activity and provide exercise advice or guidance to individuals of all ages and abilities. They also provide specialized services for pediatric and bariatric.

13.
By calling 8-1-1 every night from 5pm to 9am Pacific Time.

14.
Translation services are available in more than 130 languages.

15.
Individuals can add physical activity to their healthy lifestyle by contacting HealthLink BC's qualified exercise professionals through the 8-1-1 phone line. They can also submit physical activity questions through the form provided on the HealthLink BC website.

