1.
My name is Lily and I am a part of a wonderful Talent Acquisition team that recruits for retail branch positions for TD locations across the Lower Mainland, BC. I am passionate about helping people find meaningful employment and long-term careers at TD, and contributing to building a diverse workforce that fosters an inclusive environment.

2.
TD is committed to supporting Indigenous communities and we know more work is needed on our part on the journey towards Truth and Reconciliation. We support initiatives that promote early learning, enhance financial education, support equitable health outcomes and celebrate Indigenous culture. Through the TD Ready Commitment, we’re applying our business, people, and philanthropy toward helping open doors for a more inclusive tomorrow for all. For example, every June we honour the culture and history of Indigenous Peoples. Through colleague-focused events in the Bank and various community initiatives supported by the TD Ready Commitment like Luminato and the SOCAN Foundation, we're helping bring people together to celebrate Indigenous Peoples' arts and culture. Additionally, since 2013 we’ve supported Frontier College and their Summer Literacy Youth Camps. Frontier College collaborates with 250 Indigenous communities, coast-to-coast, to help build children’s love of reading and improve educational outcomes for Indigenous youth. To date, the program has reached 54,000 children and distributed over 225,000 books. We’re also working with various TD Friends of the Environment advisory boards to help increase funding for environmental projects with Indigenous communities. At TD, diversity and inclusion are central to fostering a culture of care. In keeping with the focus of the TD Ready Commitment, we aspire to create an environment where all colleagues have an opportunity to fulfill their potential and to participate in meaningful ways. We know our colleagues can only do their best work when they feel encouraged to be themselves.

3.
TD supports initiatives that promote early learning, enhance financial education, support equitable health outcomes, and celebrate Indigenous culture. They honour the culture and history of Indigenous Peoples every June through colleague-focused events and community initiatives such as Luminato and the SOCAN Foundation. Since 2013, they have supported Frontier College’s Summer Literacy Youth Camps, which collaborate with Indigenous communities to improve educational outcomes for Indigenous youth. Additionally, TD works with various TD Friends of the Environment advisory boards to increase funding for environmental projects with Indigenous communities.

4.
Through colleague-focused events in the Bank and various community initiatives supported by the TD Ready Commitment like Luminato and the SOCAN Foundation, we're helping bring people together to celebrate Indigenous Peoples' arts and culture. Additionally, since 2013 we’ve supported Frontier College and their Summer Literacy Youth Camps, which collaborate with Indigenous communities to build children’s love of reading and improve educational outcomes for Indigenous youth.

5.
Since 2013

6.
54,000 children and over 225,000 books

7.
TD is working with various TD Friends of the Environment advisory boards to help increase funding for environmental projects with Indigenous communities.

8.
We are always looking to hire part-time Customer Experience Associates at TD. This position is suitable for students as the part-time hours are flexible around school schedules.

9.
They are suitable because the part-time hours are flexible around school schedules.

10.
We are looking for candidates with customer service skills who have a passion for helping others by delivering exceptional client service. If a student has not held a previous customer service job, that is okay, as we also consider transferrable skills from volunteer experience, internships, and co-ops.

11.
Yes, we consider transferrable skills from volunteer experience, internships, and co-ops.

12.
TD offers a specialized onboarding program for new hires from Indigenous communities that connects them with a 1:1 mentor and introduces them to the internal Indigenous colleagues Employee Resource Group to build a sense of community. The program teaches new hires about the organization and about career development and growth opportunities at TD. It is a 9-month program and is optional.

13.
TD offers a specialized onboarding program for new hires from Indigenous communities. It connects them with a 1:1 mentor and introduces them to the internal Indigenous colleagues Employee Resource Group to build a sense of community. It teaches the new hire about the organization and about career development & growth opportunities at TD. The program is 9 months and it is optional.

14.
The Indigenous onboarding program lasts 9 months and is optional.

15.
Together with AFOA Canada, TD has worked to build a scholarship for Indigenous Peoples. Through it, 25 scholarships are available to be awarded annually, worth up to $60K over 4 years.

16.
25 scholarships, worth up to $60,000 over 4 years.

17.
Students can find more information about the Indigenous student scholarships and grants by visiting https://www.td.com/ca/en/personal-banking/solutions/student-advice/indigenous-student-scholarships-grants-and-bursaries.

18.
Email: Lily.To@td.com  
LinkedIn: @lilyto2  
Website: jobs.td.com/en-CA/

