1.
The FNHA works to reform the way health care is delivered to BC First Nations through direct services and collaboration with provincial partners.

2.
The FNHA demonstrates its commitment by serving over 200 diverse First Nations communities and citizens across BC, championing culturally safe practices throughout the broader health care system, embedding cultural safety and humility into health service delivery, and fostering a work culture based on respect, lateral kindness, and First Nations teachings. They support Indigenous employees' leadership and wellness development through culturally infused orientation programs, performance partnerships, and various cultural practices and supports such as smudging ceremonies, Monday prayers, and community partnerships.

3.
Over 200 communities and citizens

4.
FNHA champions culturally safe practices throughout the broader health care system by actively working with health partners to embed cultural safety and humility into health service delivery and improve health outcomes for First Nations people. They incorporate First Nations teachings into their holistic approach to wellness, support their staff with cultural practices such as smudging ceremonies and opening the work week with prayers and singing the Coast Salish anthem, and promote cultural safety and humility through training programs like the San’yas Indigenous Cultural Safety Training Program and a community of practice dedicated to these values.

5.
The FNHA incorporates First Nations teachings into its work culture and wellness initiatives by adopting a holistic approach to wellness based on First Nations teachings, embedding cultural practices such as opening the work week with a Monday morning prayer and singing the Coast Salish anthem, and supporting cultural ceremonies like smudging. The organization also provides cultural experiences through its orientation program, collaborates with knowledge keepers for mindful Mondays, and partners with First Nations cultural societies to foster a culturally safe environment.

6.
Raising the Canoe, FNHA’s First Nations Student Program  
Firekeepers, FNHA’s First Nations New Grad Program

7.
The Raising the Canoe program provides First Nations students exposure to health care while supporting their personal and professional growth. It aims to match a student’s education, skills, career interests, and goals with available opportunities.

8.
The Firekeepers program is FNHA’s First Nations New Grad Program, which provides entry-level (non-clinical) professional developmental positions. It offers opportunities for new graduates to grow and strengthen their leadership skills and understanding of the First Nations Health Authority and other major functional areas through a detailed one-year development plan that includes shadowing, hands-on learning, and more. The program starts in September and May of each year.

9.
Yes.

10.
We hire individuals from a wide variety of backgrounds, including health care, IT, project management, human resources, communications, strategic policy and many more.

11.
Our orientation program is a unique cultural experience, complemented by other cultural practices and supports that are embedded in our day-to-day work that help inform our work culture. These include opening the work week with a Monday morning prayer and singing the Coast Salish anthem, mindful Mondays with and knowledge keeper, Tsow-Tun-Le-Lum Society provides services to all FNHA employees, smudging ceremonies, our annual Family Gathering and support through partnerships with First Nations cultural societies. At the FNHA, employees and direct supervisors co-create goals, aligning personal strengths to department and organizational goals through our performance partnerships. This is used instead of an assessment model. Performance Partnerships are an opportunity for all staff to set a learning plan and wellness plan for the year ahead. Additional professional development includes: First Nations Career Partner, LinkedIn Learning account, San’yas Indigenous Cultural Safety Training Program, Respect in the workplace, and Cultural Safety & Humility community of practice.

12.
The FNHA fosters cultural safety and humility through its orientation program, which provides a unique cultural experience, and by embedding cultural practices and supports into daily work, such as opening the workweek with a Monday morning prayer and singing the Coast Salish anthem, engaging in mindful Mondays with a knowledge keeper, conducting smudging ceremonies, and organizing events like the annual Family Gathering. Additionally, they offer training programs like the San’yas Indigenous Cultural Safety Training Program and maintain a community of practice dedicated to Cultural Safety & Humility.

13.
The FNHA supports BC First Nations individuals, families and communities to achieve and enjoy the highest level of health and wellness by working with them on their health and wellness journeys, honoring traditions and cultures, and championing First Nations health and wellness within the FNHA organization and with all of its partners. They support the Indigenous community through health and wellness promotion and awareness, their health benefits program, primary and virtual care services, and various community grant programs.

14.
The community or cultural activities included in FNHA’s employee support programs are smudging ceremonies, opening the work week with a Monday morning prayer and singing the Coast Salish anthem, mindful Mondays with a knowledge keeper, the Tsow-Tun-Le-Lum Society services, the annual Family Gathering, and partnerships with First Nations cultural societies.

15.
Great opportunity to have exposure to First Nations health care across the province, and work in a First Nations organization.

16.
Students can contact FirstNationsCareers@fnha.ca.

17.
8888 University Drive Burnaby, B.C. Canada V5A 1S6

18.
The FNHA acknowledges the traditional territories by recognizing the unceded lands of the Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories the campuses reside.

