1.
Auto insurance, driver licensing, claims, and vehicle registration.

2.
ICBC demonstrates its commitment by having a Special Program designation from the BC Human Rights Commissioner, allowing them to preferentially target and hire self-identified Indigenous people to achieve greater employee representation. They actively learn, grow, and address disadvantages faced by Indigenous people through initiatives for both customers and employees, aiming to create a more inclusive and diverse workplace. Additionally, they have created specific Indigenous roles within the organization, maintain an Indigenous Talent Community to match Indigenous candidates to vacancies, and offer practicum opportunities and an Indigenous Employee Resource Group to support Indigenous employees' growth and inclusion.

3.
ICBC has a Special Program designation from the BC Human Rights Commissioner that allows them to preferentially target and hire self-identified Indigenous people. Its purpose is to achieve greater employee representation of Indigenous peoples.

4.
ICBC has created specific Indigenous roles within the organization and is committed to hiring Indigenous talent at all levels. They have an open Indigenous Talent Community posting to collect applications from Indigenous people, with efforts to match applicants to vacancies throughout the company. Additionally, they offer co-op opportunities in various business areas such as Finance, Human Resources, IT, Marketing, Administration, and Insurance. They also provide practicum opportunities for Indigenous students to practice their skills, learn about specific roles, and expand their understanding of ICBC.

5.
ICBC has created specific Indigenous roles within the organization and committed to hiring Indigenous talent at all levels. They have an open Indigenous Talent Community posting to collect applications from Indigenous people, then speak with candidates and endeavor to match them to vacancies throughout the company.

6.
ICBC offers a flexible work environment for most positions, a competitive benefits package, career opportunities, and a supportive and collaborative work environment.

7.
ICBC offers co-op opportunities in various business areas such as Finance, Human Resources, IT, Marketing, Administration, and Insurance.

8.
We are seeking diverse skills, qualifications and academic backgrounds to fill a variety of roles.

9.
We offer practicum opportunities to Indigenous students where they can practice their existing skills and learn about specific roles while expanding their understanding of ICBC. We also have an Indigenous Employee Resource Group which regularly meets, connects, and plans inclusive activities.

10.
Yes, you can contact Linda Epp for more information about Indigenous talent sourcing at ICBC. Her email is linda.epp@icbc.com and her phone number is 604-968-3092.

11.
Email: linda.epp@icbc.com  
Phone Number: 604-968-3092

12.
8888 University Drive Burnaby, B.C. Canada V5A 1S6

13.
Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen

