1.
- Your benefit covers counselling services from a qualified mental health provider.
- The mental health provider must be registered with Health Benefits.

2.
You must see a provider who is registered with the Health Benefits Program to receive coverage for your counselling services.
You can find detailed information about your mental health claims through your PBC Member Profile, which you can access online. 
If you need travel assistance to access counselling, please contact the Medical Transportation Program.
If you prefer virtual appointments, talk to your provider about Telehealth options. 
Tell your provider that you have coverage through the Health Benefits Program when scheduling your first appointment. 
Cancel your appointment ahead of time if you can no longer make it. Health Benefits does not pay for missed appointments and your provider may charge you for the cost of your appointment if you do not show up. 
If you have any questions about your mental health benefit, how to access coverage, how to find a mental health provider or why a claim was denied, call Health Benefits at 1-855-550-5454.

3.
- You can find detailed information about your mental health claims through your PBC Member Profile, which you can access online.
- You must see a provider who is registered with the Health Benefits Program to receive coverage for your counselling services.
- If you need travel assistance to access counselling, please contact the Medical Transportation Program (email: Transportation@fnha.ca; phone: 1-855-550-5454).
- Options to find a registered mental health provider are provided through Health Benefits.

4.
- Some services are considered Exclusions
- Items and services that are Exclusions cannot be covered as an exception and cannot be appealed.

5.
You have the right to appeal the decision if coverage for a mental health service has been denied. Items and services that are Exclusions cannot be appealed. Contact Health Benefits at 1-855-550-5454 for more information about the appeals process.

6.
You can contact FNHA's Quality Care and Safety Office.

7.
1. Talk to your provider about Telehealth options.
2. See the Telehealth page or the Telehealth for Mental Health poster.

8.
Cancel your appointment ahead of time if you can no longer make it. Health Benefits does not pay for missed appointments and your provider may charge you for the cost of your appointment if you do not show up.

9.
You can contact the Medical Transportation Program at Transportation@fnha.ca or 1-855-550-5454.

10.
You can call Health Benefits at 1-855-550-5454.

