1.
- Social connections and quality relationships are one of the building blocks to cultivating resilience and maintaining positive well-being.
- Close relationships are the strongest predictors of a healthy and happy life.

2.
- Being self-aware means noticing and understanding your thoughts, emotions, and behaviors, and understanding how they affect both you and those around you.
- Ways to build self-awareness include knowing your strengths, recognizing and naming emotions, and practicing mindfulness.

3.
Adrianna and Mia, two of your Health Peer Educators, are here to discuss what character strengths are and how to use them to improve your well-being.

4.
Recognizing and naming emotions helps in understanding and managing them effectively. It also helps in improving emotional intelligence and communication skills.

5.
- Knowing your strengths
- Recognizing and naming emotions
- Practicing mindfulness

6.
Shifting perspective is important in cultivating resilience because our perception of events can alter our feelings around them, and the lens through which we look at the world has a big impact on how we experience our lives. Practicing gratitude is one way to shift our perspective.

7.
Practicing gratitude can help in shifting perspective by focusing on the positive aspects of life and events, which can lead to a more optimistic outlook.

8.
Setting goals gives you long-term vision and short-term motivations, and achieving goals builds your self-confidence. Goals can help you during times of adversity by offering a roadmap out of challenging situations.

9.
SMART goals are specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound. They can be helpful in providing a clear and structured framework for setting and achieving goals.

10.
Problem-solving skills can help in overcoming roadblocks by allowing individuals to navigate around challenges and persevere in the face of adversity.

11.
Self-compassion is the practice of treating yourself compassionately in situations where you might perceive inadequacy, failure, or general suffering.

12.
Perla, one of your Health Peers, and Dr. Lara Aknin and Dr. Brian Fraser, two of your SFU professors, are here to discuss how to overcome Imposter Syndrome.

13.
The Bouncing Forward course is a free, non-credit Canvas course.
It can be accessed by joining the course.

