1.
Supports available at SFU’s Indigenous Student Centre include wholistic wellness programs, a Calender of Events for upcoming programs, a feedback form and email for program suggestions, a Wellness Program for community and in-person programs, one-on-one appointments or workshops with Indigenous Clinical Counsellors, Elders Program Drop-in for casual conversations and knowledge sharing, and Cultural Connections workshops.

2.
You can learn about upcoming wellness programs hosted by the ISC by checking their Calendar of Events.

3.
You can fill out the feedback form or email iscadmin@sfu.ca.

4.
Sign up for the Wellness Program to join our online community and in-person programs.

5.
Get connected with one of our Indigenous Clinical Counsellors for a one-on-one appointment or workshop.

6.
Yes, there are casual conversations and knowledge-sharing opportunities at the Elders Program Drop-in.

7.
You can learn new skills and visit with the community.

8.
You can access Black Mental Health supports through SFU Health and Counselling Services by visiting the HCS Black Student Supports page and booking a drop-in appointment with Tricia Kay Williams, the Black Counsellor, by appointment in advance.

9.
Tricia Kay Williams is a Black Counsellor at SFU. She offers drop-in counselling and supports related to Black Mental Health and other BIPOC-specific services.

10.
The MindShift Application is an iOS and Android app designed to help individuals ease their anxiety through tools aimed at relaxing the mind and developing more effective ways of thinking.

11.
Yes, the MindShift App is free. You can download it through the App Store and Google Play.

12.
Additional support options and counselling services are available at SFU Health and Counselling Services.

13.
8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

14.
Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen

15.
Students can check the ISC Calendar of Events, fill out the feedback form or email iscadmin@sfu.ca, sign up for the Wellness Program, get connected with Indigenous Clinical Counsellors, attend Elders Program Drop-ins, join Cultural Connections workshops, visit the SFU Health and Counselling Services website, or explore resources like the MindShift app.

