1.
The purpose of the ISC Elders Program is to create safe spaces for Indigenous students, foster relationships with Indigenous communities, and implement cultural knowledges and practices.

2.
An “Elder” is someone recognized as such by other Elders in the SFU Elder’s and Knowledge Sharer’s Program and in the community. They have knowledge of traditional values and culture and maintain connections to the local Indigenous community, embodying a positive and respectful attitude.  
“Knowledge Sharers” are individuals who may not be considered Elders but hold traditional knowledges and teachings about their culture.

3.
Including an Indigenous Elder or Knowledge Sharer in your work allows you to start your event off in a good way. The inclusion of traditional knowledge and cultural practices not only creates a welcoming and inclusive environment but recognizes the importance of Indigenous peoples to the land that we live on, work that we do and community around us. Indigenous Peoples have lived on this land since time immemorial and have teachings to share about moving forward in the work that we do in a way that is honest and transparent, takes responsibility for past and future actions, and encourages listening with an open mind and compassionate heart. This also directly reflects one of SFU’s top priorities as outlined in the What’s Next: The SFU Strategy to “Uphold Truth and Reconciliation.” Acknowledging and including Indigenous Peoples in your work contributes to the decolonization process and improving community relationships across SFU.

4.
A “Territorial Welcome” is made by First Nations who are traditionally from this territory, to welcome you to their land and start off your event in a good way.  
A “Land Acknowledgement” should be made by the host or emcee as they are the ones acknowledging they are guests on this land.

5.
You can book an Elder or Knowledge Sharer by submitting an Elder Request Form on the ISC’s website.

6.
The Elder Request Form asks for details regarding the requester's contact information, event details, Elder duties and onsite contact, transportation, and honourarium.

7.
The sooner you get your request in, the better chance our Elders/Knowledge Sharers will be available. However, the deadline to submit a request is 2 weeks prior to your event.

8.
Yes, each of our Elders and Knowledge Sharers holds expertise in various fields. When reviewing your request, we do our best to take the event topic/request into consideration when choosing which Elder may be the best fit. Requesters may also request a specific Elder or Knowledge Sharer, but we may not always be able to accommodate.

9.
These events should be respectful of the Elder’s time and knowledge, and they should align with the goals of fostering understanding and respect for Indigenous Cultures. Please note that Elders and Knowledge Sharers are not Counsellors, nor do they offer counselling services.

10.
Yes, Elders and Knowledge Sharers are available to participate in one-time events or long-term projects. Request acceptance is up to the discretion of the Elder/Knowledge Sharer.

11.
Yes, availability varies and is up to the discretion of our individual Elders and Knowledge Sharers.

12.
Elders/Knowledge Sharers are available for both in-person and virtual events.

13.
Yes, Elders and Knowledge Sharers are available for video recordings, screenings and postings at an additional fee. All requested video content is Intellectual Property of the requested Elder or Knowledge Sharer in accordance with the Copyright Act. Please refer to the Elders Program Protocol Guide for more details.

14.
No, the ISC Elders Program only offers supports to and accepts requests from SFU Programs and Departments.

15.
Each of our Elders and Knowledge Sharers hold various knowledges and skills from expertise in archaeology, traditional knowledge, drumming and singing to beading and cedar weaving.

16.
The ISC Elders Program Coordinator will consider the event topic, location, and Elder/Knowledge Sharer availability when selecting the appropriate Elder or Knowledge Keeper. Requesters may also specify a particular Elder or Knowledge Sharer, but the final match is subject to the Elder’s availability.

17.
Yes, it is expected that the event organizer will coordinate and provide transportation via Uber for in-person events. The ISC has created an Uber Guide to support organizers with this process. However, some Elders and Knowledge Sharers prefer to drive themselves, in which case accessible parking should be available. In either case, an onsite contact is expected to meet the Elder or Knowledge Sharer at the drop-off or parking location to escort them to the event.

18.
The requirements for hosting an Elder or Knowledge Sharer at your event are:
- Submission request at least two weeks in advance of your event
- Confirmation of request from the ISC
- Event logistics: treat the Elder or Knowledge Sharer respectfully throughout the event; offer them the option to stay for the entire event; provide refreshments and seating; serve them their meal first (if applicable)
- Transportation: arrange transportation, typically through Uber, unless the Elder prefers to drive themselves, in which case accessible parking should be available; an onsite contact must meet the Elder/Knowledge Sharer at the drop-off or parking location to escort them to the event
- Gifting: present the Elder with a small gift as a sign of respect and thanks (this does not replace the honourarium)
- Payment: provide an honourarium based on the duration of participation and ensure it is presented directly after the event, including any additional travel or parking costs
- Safety and support: ensure the event location is accessible and assign a Helper to assist the Elder/Knowledge Sharer throughout their stay
- Post-event: complete a feedback form to share your thoughts on their participation

19.
The Elder or Knowledge Sharer will stay at minimum the requested time agreed upon with the organizer—this may be anywhere from 15 minutes for an opening to 7 hours for a full day event. However, if the Elder or Knowledge Keeper is invited to open an event, it is polite to ask if they would like to stay for the duration of the event, as an observer and potential participant—this may exceed the agreed upon payment time (at no extra charge) at the discretion of the Elder or Knowledge Keeper.

20.
Please email the Elders Program Coordinator at iscelder@sfu.ca as soon as possible and we will try to accommodate the updated request.

21.
Elders and Knowledge Sharers are given the event details that the requester provides in the request. Please share as much information and details as possible in the event description and Elder duties, in order for the Elder/Knowledge Sharer to connect with the event themes and agenda as much as possible.

22.
Yes, once participation has been confirmed, Elder/Knowledge Sharer participation can be shared throughout your marketing process. Please refer to the ISC website here for bios and pictures.

23.
To show respect and thanks for their contributions to your event, meeting, ceremony, etc. The exchange of a small gift mirrors a contractual agreement between two parties: the Elder or Knowledge Sharer agrees to fulfill the request, and the person presenting the gift commits to caring for the Elder or Knowledge Sharer from the moment of the request to the follow-up after the event. It represents a mutual understanding and commitment, honoring the importance of reciprocity and respect in the relationship.

24.
Please refer to the honorarium section at the bottom of the Elder Request Form webpage here.

25.
By the Organizer:  
- If the event is canceled within 72 hours (3 days) of the scheduled time, the full honorarium must still be provided to the Elder or Knowledge Sharer.  
- If the event is canceled within 120 hours (1 week) of the scheduled time, 50% of the honorarium is still expected to be paid.  

By the Elder/Knowledge Sharer:  
- If an Elder or Knowledge Sharer needs to cancel due to unforeseen circumstances, they are not expected to be paid for their time. The ISC staff or the Elder will notify the event organizer as soon as possible in such cases.

26.
Payment to the Elder or Knowledge Sharer should be provided immediately after their participation has concluded at your event. It is customary to gift the honorarium at this time to show respect and appreciation for their contribution.

27.
The ISC staff or the Elder will notify you via email and/or phone call in the event of a cancellation.

28.
After your event has concluded, the ISC will email you with a follow-up survey. We ask all organizers to please complete this survey to let us know how the Elder/Knowledge Sharer participation in your event went and how we might be able to improve our program for the future.

