1.
FNMISA is an Indigenous student-run group within the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS) that provides supports and resources to First Nations, Métis, and Inuit students, advocates for their needs, promotes cultural awareness, and aims to support their success at Simon Fraser University.

2.
Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS)

3.
- To provide a variety of supports and resources to FNMI students  
- Support and preservation of the various cultural diversities of FNMI peoples  
- To advocate for services and resources necessary for FNMI students to succeed at SFU  
- To promote increased awareness of FNMI cultures and issues to the SFU Community

4.
To be a member of FNMISA, one must have full and equal participation rights, which typically includes being a student affiliated with First Nations, Métis, or Inuit communities at Simon Fraser University.

5.
Full and equal participation rights, access to FNMISA space and resources, motioning and voting at all meetings, eligibility for FNMISA Council and elections, voting during referenda, access to administration documents upon request, and the right to request a copy of the FNMISA Constitution and Bylaws.

6.
SUB 1440

7.
board@fnmisa.ca

8.
fnmisa.ca

9.
Instagram: @sfu.fnmisa  
Facebook: @sfufnmisa

10.
8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

11.
Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen

12.
FNMISA promotes increased awareness of FNMI cultures and issues to the SFU Community.

13.
FNMISA supports the cultural diversity of FNMI peoples by supporting and preserving their various cultural diversities.

14.
FNMISA members have the opportunity to request a copy of the FNMISA Constitution and Bylaws of association and to access the open inspection of any administration documents of the FNMISA upon request addressed to the FNMISA Council.

15.
FNMISA advocates for FNMI students at SFU by providing supports and resources, supporting and preserving FNMI cultural diversities, and promoting increased awareness of FNMI cultures and issues within the SFU community.

