1.
- ISC Burnaby Space (2000 level, Academic Quadrangle)  
- ISC Expansion Space (3000 level, Academic Quadrangle)  
- SFU Library Room 2114 (W.A.C. Bennett Library)  
- Indigenous Health Sciences Study Space (BLU 9860)  
- Faculty of Education's Indigenous Gathering Space (8000 level, Education Building)  
- Indigenous Garden  
- FNMISA space (Strand Hall Annex, Burnaby Mountain)  
- ISC Surrey (5000 level, Surrey Campus)  
- Downtown Campus Indigenous Space (First floor, Harbour Centre)

2.
The ISC Burnaby Space is located on the 2000 level of the Academic Quadrangle. It offers a kitchen, computer lab, study/lounge space, and the Elders Room.

3.
Monday to Friday, 8:30am - 4:30pm

4.
The ISC Expansion Space is located next to Saywell Hall on the 3000 level of the Academic Quadrangle. It provides a kitchenette, computer lab, study/lounge space, and a meeting room.

5.
Indigenous students can access the ISC Expansion Space after hours by reaching out to askisc@sfu.ca to request access.

6.
Indigenous students can find a study room in the W.A.C. Bennett Library Room 2114. The room is available on a first-come, first-served basis.

7.
The ICRC collects books, articles, websites, and audio-visual materials on Indigenous curriculum and pedagogy.

8.
Ashley Edwards

9.
The HSCI study space offers free printers, computers, and ample study space. Students can access the space 24/7 via a security FOB and door code. To obtain access, students must visit the FHS Dean’s Office (Blusson Hall, Room 11300) to provide their SFU ID and fill out a requisition form. FHS will pay for the security FOB.

10.
The Faculty of Education’s Indigenous Gathering Space is located on the 8000 level of the Education Building. Its purpose is to offer students space to connect with their peers.

11.
The Indigenous Garden is a space for all students, faculty, and staff to gather and reflect on the displacement and dispossession of the stewards of these lands. It aims to commemorate Indian Residential School survivors, intergenerational survivors, their families, and communities.

12.
The FNMISA is dedicated to creating a safe space and programming for the members of the FNMI community at SFU. It offers opportunities to gather with community, attend cultural events, and participate in other culturally relevant activities.

13.
Students can access the FNMISA space by reaching out to board@fnmisa.ca to obtain the door code.

14.
7 days a week, 9:00am - 10:00pm

15.
A large ceremonial hall for events up to 300 attendees, a dressing room, an Elders room, a seminar room, a wellness room, makers' space, and an intergenerational Indigenous peoples’ lounge.

16.
September 12, 2025 at 2:30pm

17.
The ISC Surrey is located on the 5000 level of the Surrey Campus. It offers Indigenous students access to a kitchenette, printer, study/lounge space, academic drop-in services, wellness and cultural programming.

18.
Indigenous students can access the ISC Surrey space after hours via passcode entry by emailing askisc@sfu.ca to learn more.

19.
The Indigenous student space at SFU’s downtown campus will be located on the first floor of Harbour Centre. It will include access to a kitchenette, computer lab, and study/lounge space.

20.
SFU acknowledges the unceded traditional territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, and Tsawwassen peoples. This acknowledgment relates to the campus locations as all three campuses are situated on these traditional lands.

