1.
The ISC provides supports and programs to currently enrolled self-identified Indigenous students at SFU.

2.
You can contact the ISC staff at Simon Fraser University by phone at 778-782-6929, by email at ask_isc@sfu.ca, or by visiting any of the ISC locations to connect with a staff member.

3.
Monday to Friday, 8:30am–4:30pm

4.
You can reach out to the contact information provided or drop by any of the ISC locations to connect with an ISC staff member.

5.
Jessica La Rochelle  
isc_directors@sfu.ca

6.
Katrina Haintz, Treena Chambers, Kim John, Katie Pearson, Jasmin Glaw

7.
Reach out to iscelder@sfu.ca.

8.
Visit the Directory of Indigenous Contacts.

9.
You can contact the Indigenous Student Recruitment & Admissions Team via email at ask_isc@sfu.ca or visit the ISC locations to connect with a staff member.

10.
iscproj@sfu.ca

11.
You can reach out to Katrina Haintz at khaintz@sfu.ca for the Indigenous Student Life programs like the ILLC or Indigenous student staff opportunities.

12.
You can email iscwell@sfu.ca to book an appointment with an Indigenous Clinical Counsellor.

13.
The current Indigenous Clinical Counsellors at SFU are Jennifer Reandy and Tanu Gamble. Jennifer Reandy is available Tuesday to Friday at SRYC 5304, and Tanu Gamble is available Monday to Wednesday at AQ 2003.3.

14.
Come to Kim John's office for information on Peer Cousins, Career Programs, or IUPP students can reach him at iupp_help@sfu.ca.

15.
The Playtime Coordinator, Calcifer, organizes play activities, while the Wellness Coordinator, Cavapoo, focuses on wellness activities.

16.
Beans, Calcifer, Solo

17.
Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

18.
8888 University Drive, Burnaby, BC, Canada, V5A 1S6

19.
You can visit the Indigenous Student Centre (ISC), reach out via their contact information, or connect with any of the Indigenous Student Life Coordinators. Additionally, you can visit the Directory of Indigenous Contacts for a full listing of Indigenous contacts on campus.

20.
Phone: 778-782-6929  
Email: ask_isc@sfu.ca

