1.
Ty is an Anthropology master student. The keywords related to their research are Diaspora; Indigenous-Asian relationalities; settlerhood.

2.
Alison's research interests are animal-human relationships, Indigenous, colonization. She has received the SSHRC-CGSM Indigenous Scholars Award.

3.
Research keywords: Sustainability, Community (& Culture), Strategy  
Award: CN Graduate Award in Indigenous Business and Leadership

4.
Candice is studying Indigenous Resilience. The scholarship associated with her is the BMO John Ellis Graduate Scholarship in Indigenous Business and Leadership Annual Award.

5.
Research keywords: Holistic, Empowering, Frustrating  
Award: CN Graduate Award

6.
Research focus areas: Indigenous research ethics/ethical processes; Indigenous health research; social theory  
Scholarship awarded: SSHRC scholarship

7.
Steven is studying a family of dye molecules for applications in energy storage.

8.
Mathew aims to draw parallels between Indigenous methodologies, queer theory, and 'hard' science to examine the scientific and sociopolitical impacts of HIV/AIDS particularly related to Indigenous Peoples.

9.
Ashley is studying offender risk assessment and focusing on the overrepresentation of Indigenous Peoples in the justice system.

10.
Erik's research focuses on how food security and housing environments relate to mental health. He uses a two-eyed seeing approach.

11.
The importance of belonging, justice, and injustice by analyzing decolonization, belonging, resurgence, and self-governance.

12.
Mackenzie’s research interests are poetry, Indigenous literature, and urban spaces. He has received the Edward M.W. Gibson Fellowship in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences.

13.
Jonathan researches how Indigenous communities engage with resource extraction projects, their impact and legal decision process.

14.
Tsatia is working with urban Indigenous communities in Metro Vancouver and Russian. Her research focus is bringing these communities into dialogue with each other.

15.
Carolyn's research goals are to change the educational system and the education programs to help future generations with their education.

16.
holistic healing and transformation

17.
Maggie Benston Centre 1100, Simon Fraser University, 8888 University Drive, Burnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6

18.
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen

19.
Indigenous Grad Entrance Scholarship (IGES)  
Indigenous Scholars Award  
CN Graduate Award in Indigenous Business and Leadership  
BMO John Ellis Graduate Scholarship in Indigenous Business and Leadership  
CN Graduate Award  
SSHRC-CGSM  
Graduate Fellowship  
Biagioni Indigenous Graduate Entrance Scholarship  
Graduate Dean's Entrance Award  
SSHRC CGSM  
SSHRC Vanier  
Edward M.W. Gibson Fellowship in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences  
SSHRC CGS Doctoral Scholarship  
Indigenous Graduate Entrance Scholarship  
Graduate Entrance Scholarship  
BC Graduate Scholarship 2020  
GPS Graduate Fellowship

20.
Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

