1.
Syexwaliya is a person who supports families and shares cultural teachings and protocols within and outside of her community. Her passion regarding Squamish culture is to see that Squamish culture, language, and ceremonies continue to be the cornerstone of the Nation for future generations, and she wants the culture and her snichim (language) to be used by all families and future generations in their daily lives and ceremonies.

2.
Syexwaliya emphasizes the importance of supporting the continuation of culture and language to ensure that Squamish culture, language, and ceremonies remain the cornerstone of the Nation for future generations and to carry on the culture and language (Snichim) so it is used by all families and future generations in their daily lives and ceremonies.

3.
External commitments limit her capacity to attend events.

4.
Auntie Patti Williams is an Elder from the Nlaka’pamux Nation, Skuppah Band, who acquired her First Nations status in 2011 through the Gender Equity in the Indian Registration Act (Bill C-3). She is the mother of two and a retired Indigenous Support Worker with 22 years of experience working in the S.D. No.42 Maple Ridge-Pitt Meadows School District. She is a Natural Fibres Artist, making jewelry and art from natural materials like cedar bark and pine needles. Auntie Patti supports Indigenous communities by being available for student support during Smudging Breaks and Tea & Art sessions, and she shares cultural teachings and protocols within and outside her community to ensure that Squamish culture, language, and ceremonies continue to be passed down for future generations.

5.
She is a Natural Fibres Artist, making jewelry and other art out of various natural materials including inner red cedar bark and pine needles.

6.
Students can reach out to Auntie Patti via isc_elder@sfu.ca. She is available for student support during her Smudging Breaks and Tea & Art sessions.

7.
Pixie is currently employed in HeartWork for our Nation, as well as the Fraser Valley Métis Association and other community groups within the city of Abbotsford BC. She sits as FVMA’s President, 2SLGBTGGIA+ representative, and holds portfolios in health and housing. She also sits on other boards and committees within Abbotsford BC.

8.
Pixie supports Indigenous and community initiatives by working in HeartWork for her Nation and the Fraser Valley Métis Association, serving as FVMA’s President and 2SLGBTGGIA+ representative, and holding health and housing portfolios. She is involved in various boards and committees within the city of Abbotsford BC, advocating for 2SLGBTQQIA+ peoples, and working on the National Action Plan for MMIWGs and 2SLGBTQQIA+ communities. Additionally, she provides student support and participates in ISC events.

9.
Pixie currently sits as FVMA’s President, 2SLGBTGGIA+ representative, and holds the health/housing portfolios. She also sits on other boards and committees within the city of Abbotsford BC.

10.
Pixie describes her experience working with 2SLGBTQQIA+ communities as being a voice for 2SLGBTGGIA+ peoples, working on the National Action Plan for MMIWGs and 2SLGBTQQIA+ peoples, and advocating to ensure the missing voices are included at the table.

11.
Jackie Gonzales is a Skwxwú7mesh/Musqueam matriarch from the Village of Eslh7an. She has spent over 45 years leading the way in cultural revitalization for her community, particularly with youth and families, and in regards to ceremony and protocol.

12.
Due to external commitments, Elder Jackie currently has limited capacity to attend events.

13.
Russell Wallace is an award-winning composer, producer, and traditional singer. He learned traditional singing from his mom Flora Wallace. His music has been featured on soundtracks for film, television, and theatre/dance productions across Canada and the U.S. He is a founding member of the Aboriginal Writers Collective West Coast and an alumnus of the UBC Creative Writing program. Wallace has written poetry, short fiction, theatre, and music theatre. He has a background in theatre as an alumnus of Spirit Song Native Theatre and Capilano University. He has worked with Spider Woman Theatre in New York, Centre for Indigenous Theatre in Toronto, and locally with the Firehall Arts Centre and Arts Club Theatre.

14.
Russell Wallace can support students through workshops in creativity, singing, writing, and theatre. He will be involved in a drop-in drumming session on Friday, June 20, 2025, during summer semester from 2:00 pm to 4:00 pm in AQ 3144.

15.
Friday June 20, 2025 from 2:00pm - 4:00pm

16.
Terri Mae Galligos belongs to the Tla’amin Nation with strong, solid and sacred matrilineal connections to her community. She has been an Indigenous resource teacher for the Coquitlam Board of Education since 1995.

17.
The name Setlakus was given to Terri Mae to help her remember who she is and where she comes from. The name Graunty was earned later and also holds significance related to her identity and cultural connection.

18.
Terri Mae is available evenings and weekends, as well as July and August for internal SFU events. Please contact isc_elder@sfu.ca for more information.

19.
Marny Point earned a Bachelor of Education and a Master of Educational Technology, and is a Ph.D. student in LLED at UBC. She is the Program Coordinator and Instructor for UBC’s Indigenous Bachelor of Education cohort, teaches introductory Indigenous education courses, and has taught the traditional Musqueam language course, hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm̓, from 2002 until 2019. Her work emphasizes the importance of Indigenous languages in maintaining identity, culture, and connection to place.

20.
Marny’s work in Indigenous education and language programs helps Indigenous youth by fostering a sense of identity, honour, and value through connection to their languages and culture, and by actively involving them in educational initiatives that support the betterment of Indigenous education.

21.
Elder Marny Point’s community is Musqueam. She sits on many committees to ensure the betterment of Indigenous education.

22.
The connection to Indigenous languages gives a sense of identity, honor, and value, and helps to cement Indigenous people in their place and culture.

23.
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, Tsawwassen

24.
SFU respectfully acknowledges the unceded traditional territories of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo, and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded lands the campuses reside.

