1.
You can sign up for the newsletter by visiting the website of Simon Fraser University.

2.
- Spend 5-10 minutes of each class to introduce tools and topics related to well-being
- Introduce resources to enhance time management skills
- Create due date flexibility for assignments to reduce stress
- Create opportunities for social connection and a sense of belonging
- Contribute to a positive classroom culture

3.
- These activities were embedded in a synchronous Faculty of Applied Sciences class on Zoom and asynchronously on Canvas. These can be easily adapted to other teaching platforms, such as asynchronous or in-person teaching.
- There are a variety of ways to embed well-being in online or remote environments.

4.
1. Introduce resources to enhance time management skills
2. Create due date flexibility for assignments to reduce stress

5.
1. Introduce resources to enhance time management skills 
2. Create due date flexibility for assignments to reduce stress 
3. Create opportunities for social connection and a sense of belonging 
4. Contribute to a positive classroom culture

6.
Students shared positive responses on the effectiveness of measures taken throughout the semester towards promotion of well-being in their learning experience.

7.
1. Introduce resources to enhance time management skills
2. Create due date flexibility for assignments to reduce stress
3. Create opportunities for social connection and a sense of belonging
4. Contribute to a positive classroom culture

8.
1. Create clear and transparent communication about assignment deadlines
2. Offer extensions or alternative due dates upon request
3. Provide a grace period for late submissions
4. Allow for self-paced learning with flexible assignment deadlines

9.
1. Spend 5-10 minutes of each class to introduce tools and topics related to well-being
2. Download PDF version
3. Introduce resources to enhance time management skills
4. Create due date flexibility for assignments to reduce stress
5. Create opportunities for social connection and a sense of belonging
6. Contribute to a positive classroom culture
7. Embed well-being in online or remote environments

10.
Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

