1.
Health & Counselling has various professionals available including registered clinical counsellors, psychologists, psychiatrists, social workers, and mental health nurses. My SSP service is also available for graduate students.

2.
International graduate students can receive support with transitioning to a new country by contacting the Transition Case Manager for International Graduate Students for one-to-one support.

3.
- Connecting with the Centre for Accessible Learning
- Find various options for disabled and neurodivergent students

4.
Graduate students can access the My SSP service for support by booking appointments with a counsellor, chatting for advice through the app, or calling 24/7 for crisis support.

5.
Yes, there is a Dissertation & Thesis Support Group for graduate students writing their thesis or dissertation.

6.
Doctors and nurses are available for a range of medical services, advice, and care. Booking with a clinic on campus is particularly helpful if you are attending SFU from another province or country, don’t have a family doctor during your time in graduate school, or commute from another location in Metro Vancouver. Medical appointments can be booked to meet in-person at Burnaby or Vancouver campus, and tele/virtual health visits are available as needed to accommodate your schedule and location.

7.
TAs and instructors can support well-being in the classroom by trying out quick strategies to support well-being in classes, tutorials, and learning environments. They can also participate in the Tools for Well-being in the Classroom initiative.

8.
Thriving in Graduate School, Bouncing Forward Resilience Course - for Graduate Students

9.
Graduate students can join the Bouncing Forward Resilience Course by enrolling in the free, online, self-paced course.

10.
Suicide Awareness and Prevention Training

11.
Out on Campus, Multifaith Centre, Indigenous Student Centre, Black Caucus

12.
The faculty members and instructional staff are developing resources, in-class activities, teaching practices, and content to foster well-being in learning environments. They are also creating over 300 resources to support well-being projects and encourage student involvement in promoting well-being.

13.
- Well-being through the Supervisory Process: Graduate Student Guide for Action
- Well-being through the Supervisory Process: A Faculty Guide to Action

14.
- Advocate for the needs of graduate students
- Raise awareness of campus resources
- Create conditions for optimizing the learning experience
- Support satisfaction, resilience, and success

15.
Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

