I 

 notification_important Thank you for your patience. We are operating at reduced capacity as we transition to a new electronic health record system. Response times and options for medical appointment bookings may be delayed. For alternative options, please visit medimap.ca.

Our clinics and care providers serve all SFU students at all campuses with appointments and programs running in-person, virtually or by phone. Services are no cost to SFU students.

View hours, locations, and booking options

Health & Counselling has two student health clinics on Burnaby and Vancouver campus with various options to support your well-being, including one-to-one, group, and self-guided resources. Our clinics and care providers serve all SFU students at all campuses with appointments and programs running in-person, virtually or by phone. Services are no cost to SFU students.

View hours, locations, and booking options

Doctors and nurses are available by appointment for a range of medical concerns. Seeing a doctor on campus is particularly helpful if you are attending classes far from home, don’t have a family doctor during your time at SFU, or commute from another location in Metro Vancouver. 

View medical services

Explore a range of resources and tools to support your well-being during your time as a student, like self-led courses, podcasts, and more. You can also find ways to connect with care providers and support options when you need to, like counsellors, social workers, and nurses. 

View resources & support

View medical services

View resources & support

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


