I 

Health & Counselling services are available to all SFU students. Appointments can be scheduled in-person or virtually as needed to accommodate your schedule and location. Our team consists of various professionals available on Burnaby, Vancouver, and Surrey campus for support.

You can now schedule some appointments online. Online booking options are available for rapid access/intake appointments (up to 2 business days in advance), follow up counselling appointments, and Transition Case Manager appointments. Online booking options will continue to expand until February 2024.

Book now

To book with a doctor, nurse, or other care provider please call the front desk at the numbers listed below.

Do you have accessibility needs or concerns that prevent you from phoning to make an appointment? View accessible booking options

Maggie Benston Centre, Room 0101
Bottom floor

9:30 am – 4:30 pm
Monday – Friday

Harbour Centre, Room 300
Lower level at the base of the escalator

*9:30 am – 4:30 pm
Tuesdays & Fridays
*Closed for lunch from 12:30pm to 1:30pm

Harbour Centre, Room 300
Lower level at the base of the escalator

*9:30 am – 4:15 pm
Monday - Friday

*Closed for lunch from 12:30pm to 1:30pm

Note:

 warning March 18, 2024: The Vancouver clinic will be closed.

Counselling services are available at the Surrey campus. Virtual medical appointments can also be accessed with Health & Counselling doctors. Call the Vancouver Cinic to book.

 medical_information Do you need to request your medical records? Contact: roi@sfu.ca

If an instructor requires documentation supporting a concession for a minor short-term illness (typically 1–5 days), students should use the new self-declaration form as SFU will not be requiring medical notes for minor absences during this period. Should students need to be absent for a longer period of time, they should expect to need to obtain additional medical documentation. While a note may not be required, students are still encouraged to connect with their care providers or reach out to Health & Counselling Services for care and consultation if they need it.

If you have questions about this process or policy, or are experiencing conflicting information from a class, please connect with the Office of Student Support, Rights, and Responsibilities for support.

Online booking options are continuing to expand, as we transition to a new electronic health records system into Spring 2024.

What does the new electronic health records system mean for you?

Questions or concerns? Need troubleshooting assistance? Contact our front desk for support.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


