F T I

Student life can be stressful and overwhelming, but you don't have to face it alone. Indigenous Counsellors are available through the Indigenous Student Centre to support you throughout your journey.

The Indigenous Counsellors are available for individual appointments Monday - Friday. Make an appointment by emailing your Counsellor directly or email iscwell@sfu.ca. Appointments are available with Tanu Gamble, RCC, or Jennifer Reandy, RCC. Please note in your email if you have a preference of which counsellor you would like to see.  

We try to respond within 48hrs to follow up with your request.

Indigenous Clinical Counsellor
Email: tanug@sfu.ca

Indigenous Clinical Counsellor
Email: jennifer_reandy@sfu.ca

Reaching out for counselling can be hard. We want to make it as easy as possible for you to access our services. There is no cost for currently enrolled Indigenous undergraduate and graduate students.

You may be wondering why do people go to counselling? Some common reasons include:

Even when nothing’s wrong! We appreciate and value relationship building and the creation of social support in whatever form it takes.

Vancouver Crisis Line (24/7): 604-872-3311 

Kuu-US Crisis Response Services (24/7):
1-800-588-8717

BC Suicide Line: 1-800-784-2433

SFU Campus Security: 778-782-4500

Police/Ambulance/Fire 911 or your local Emergency Department

Wellness Bundle Tuesdays offers good medicine at the Surrey ISC. It is an opportunity to set aside time to intentionally focus on wholistic wellness, while adding in a dash of fun! Creative and engaging activities are combined with relevant teachings. It is also a great opportunity to connect and make new friends.

If you have any ideas that you would like to see happen, please send your requests to Jennifer at jer@sfu.ca.

Checkout the ISC Calendar of Events to learn more about upcoming workshops.

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


