F T I

As taught by her late grandparents, Syexwaliya supports families and shares cultural teachings and protocols within and outside of her community. Her passion is to see that Squamish culture, language and ceremonies continue to be the cornerstone of the Nation for future generations and the culture carried on by future generations and her snichim (language) to be used, not only by herself, but for all the families and future generations in their daily lives and ceremonies. Let's not let our Culture and Snichim die out!

Due to external commitments, Elder Syexwaliya currently has limited capacity to attend events.

Ye tek sivqt (Good day). Nlha.kapuxkin (I am Nlaka’pamux)

Auntie Patti (Carey) Williams is an Elder from the Nlaka’pamux Nation, Skuppah Band.
Acquired her First Nations status in 2011 through the Gender Equity in the Indian Registration Act (Bill C-3) .

She is the mother of 2 and an Auntie to many, believing that “we all need more Aunties and Uncles in our circles”. Auntie Patti is now retired from S.D. No.42 Maple Ridge-Pitt Meadows School District where she worked as an Indigenous Support Worker for 22 years.

Today she likes to be known as a Natural Fibres Artist, making jewelry and other art out of various natural materials including inner red cedar bark and pine needles.

K’uk’scemx (Thank you)

Auntie Patti is available for student support during her Smudging Breaks and Tea & Art sessions.   Please check the calendar for more information or reach out to isc_elder@sfu.ca .

Born and raised in British Columbia, Pixie has lived most of her life on the West Coast, living in a few places surrounding BC, residing in Abbotsford B.C.
Currently employed in HeartWork for our Nation, as well as the Fraser Valley Métis Association and other community groups within the city of Abbotsford BC.

Currently sit as FVMA’s President, also 2SLGBTGGIA+ rep, also holding the health/housing portfolios. While sitting on FVMA board for a few years.

Currently sits on other boards and committee’s within the city of Abbotsford BC.

Sat as a voice for 2SLGBTQQIA+ peoples for LFMO, working on the National Action Plan for MMIWGs and 2SLGBTQQIA+peoples.

Through many years of sitting on many boards, and committees working with others to achieve common objectives and initiatives.

Always fighting to put the voice that is missing at the table.

I very much look forward to using my voice to strengthen the Métis Nation.

Unkie Pixie is available for student support and will be in attendance at various ISC events, please reach out to iscelder@sfu.ca to learn more.  They are also available to support internal SFU events.

Jackie Gonzales is a Skwxwú7mesh/Musqueam matriarch from the Village of Eslh7an who has spent over 45 years leading the way in cultural revitalization for her community, in particular with youth and families and in regards to ceremony and protocol.

Jackie leads from her lived experience of ceremonial, longhouse, and family connections, and is an integral part of Gathering Our Medicine.

Jackie is the mother of three with six grandchildren and two great grandchildren.

Due to external commitments, Elder Jackie currently has limited capacity to attend events.

Russell Wallace is an award-winning composer, producer and traditional singer from the Stʼatʼimc and Lil’wat Nation. Wallace learned about traditional singing from his mom Flora Wallace from Xaxlip/Lil’wat. His music can be heard on soundtracks for film, television and theatre/dance productions across Canada and the U.S. Wallace is one of the founding members of the Aboriginal Writers Collective West Coast and is an alumnus of the UBC Creative Writing program. Wallace has written poetry, short fiction, theatre, and music theatre.

Wallace also has a background in theatre as an alumnus of Spirit Song Native Theatre and Capilano University and has worked with Spider Woman Theatre in New York, Centre for Indigenous Theatre in Toronto and locally with the Firehall Arts Centre, Arts Club Theatre, and many more. Additionally Wallace has worked in radio, print media, photography, and electronic music festivals.

As a senior artist, Wallace can facilitate workshops in creativity, singing, writing, and theatre and as the youngest of 11 children has “historical knowledge from lived experiences of myself, my siblings, and of my parents who were both residential school survivors.”

Russell is available for student support and will be offers a drop-in drumming on Friday June 20 , 2025 during summer semester. Join us in AQ 3144 from 2:00pm - 4:00pm, and please reach out to iscelder@sfu.ca to learn more. 

Terri Mae Galligos belongs to the Tla’amin Nation with strong, solid and sacred matrilineal connections to her community. She has been an Indigenous resource teacher for the Coquitlam Board of Education since 1995. In the late 1990’s, the Nunkum youth dance group hosted a feast and naming ceremony.  With close ties to her nieces and nephews, she was included in this naming ceremony. Her great aunt Agnes McGee (nee Timothy) gifted her name Setlakus to Terri Mae. The purpose being: to remember who she is and where she comes from. She has since then earned another name: Graunty! 

Terri Mae has both a Bachelor and Master of Education from UBC highlighting Indigenous pedagogies.  She values diversity in cultures, connections and communities.  She understands resilience and hope.  She fosters big Aunty energy; willing to walk with anyone on whichever journey they choose with wellness and heart-filled intentions.

Graunty Terri Mae has limited capacity to provide student support or to engage in community activities.  She is available evenings and weekends, as well as July and August for Internal SFU Events.  Please contact isc_elder@sfu.ca  for more information.  

Marny is from the Musqueam band, of the Coast Salish people. She earned both her degrees: A Bachelor of Education & Master of Educational Technology and is currently a Ph.D. student in LLED at UBC. Marny is the Program Coordinator and Instructor for NITEP UBC’s Indigenous Bachelor of Education cohort, teaching the introductory Indigenous education courses, as well as the UBC/Musqueam Language Committee and First Nation’s Endangered Language Program Instructor, teaching the traditional Musqueam language course, hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm̓ from 2002 until 2019. She understands how the connection to Indigenous languages; gives value, honour and a sense of identity, which cements Native Indigenous, people in place and culture. Marny is an avid fisherwoman – owning and operating her own gillnetter. Harvesting sockeye salmon from the Fraser River, as her dad and grandfather always did. Marny is actively involved in the education of the Indigenous youth and sits on many committees to ensure the betterment of Indigenous education.

Elder Marny Point has limited capacity to provide student support or to engage in community activities.

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


