Find More Information on the Government of BC Website

Healthy eating is a pattern of eating that contributes to your best possible health.

Baby’s Best Chance is a reference guide for parents that includes resources on pregnancy, birth and parenting.

Your wellbeing is how you manage the ups and downs of day-to-day life. Learn tips and find resources on how to support your mental wellbeing.

Find information about health topics, medical tests and decision-making tools in our Learning Centre.

Learn about prescription and over-the-counter medications for all types of illnesses.

Register to get a family doctor or nurse practitioner in your community.

People are living longer than ever before. Learn tips for staying healthy and meeting your health needs as you age.

Alcohol & Drug Information Referral Service (ADIRS) provides free, confidential information and referral services to British Columbians in need of support with any kind of substance use issue (alcohol or other drugs). Referral to community substance use treatment services is available for all ages. Information available from ADIRS includes prevention resources, support groups, and addiction related topics such as fetal alcohol syndrome.

Contact ADIRS toll-free at 1 800 663-1441, or in the lower mainland at 604 660-9382. Free, multilingual telephone assistance is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Funded by the Ministry of Health, and provided by BC 2-1-1.

We appreciate your feedback. Comments submitted through the form below can help us fix errors in page content, get rid of interface bugs, and update the HealthLinkBC website to better suit the needs of the people who use it.

To submit feedback about this web page, please enter your comments, suggestions, compliments or questions in the form below. To submit general feedback about the HealthLink BC website, please click on the General Feedback tab.

To submit general feedback about the HealthLink BC website, please enter your comments, suggestions, compliments or questions in the form below. To submit feedback about a specific web page, please click on the About This Page tab.

Please note that we are unable to provide general health information or advice about symptoms by email. For general health information or symptom advice, please call us at 8-1-1 any time of the day or night.

For questions about food and nutrition, please click on Email a HealthLinkBC Dietitian.

To share this link, enter the information below and click on the "submit" button.

Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are mandatory.

There are many ways you can add physical activity to your healthy lifestyle, no matter your age or activity level. Ask us your physical activity question. Physical activity related questions will be answered by one of HealthLink BC’s qualified exercise professionals.

To submit your question about physical activity, please complete the form below.

For questions not related to physical activity, please use the General Feedback tab.

 indicates required fields

If you or someone you know needs help, call one of the numbers below:


 

Find mental health and substance use supports and services available in B.C.

Support looks different for everyone. Search for services like help hotlines, wellness programs, harm reduction resources and more. 

Visit HelpStartsHere.gov.bc.ca

If you or someone in your care has chest pains, difficulty breathing, or severe bleeding, it could be a life-threatening emergency. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately.

If you are concerned about a possible poisoning or exposure to a toxic substance, call Poison Control now at 1-800-567-8911.

Thanks to our partners and endorsers:

Call 8-1-1 toll-free in B.C., or for the deaf and hard of hearing, call 7-1-1 (TTY). For VRS, visit Video Relay Services to sign up and give them the number 604-215-5101 to call us.

You can speak with a health service navigator, who can also connect you with a:

Translation services are available in more than 130 languages.

