Instruction: Change of selection promptly shifts the focus to a matching heading further down, on the same page.

Each day, many people struggle with the loss of someone or something they care deeply about. A person may experience different kinds of emotions and it may feel like the pain or sadness may never let up. There is good news! With the right treatment, support and self-care a person can recover from grief and take back control of their life.

“Grief (also called bereavement) is the experience of loss. Many people associate grief with the death of an important person or pet. However, people experience grief after any important loss that affects their life, such as the loss of a job or relationship. Grief after diagnosis of an illness or other health problem is also common." (Canadian Mental Health Association)

“People experience grief in many different ways—and experience many different thoughts or feelings during the journey. People may feel shocked, sad, angry, scared, or anxious. Some feel numb or have a hard time feeling emotions at all. At times, many people even feel relief or peace after a loss." (Canadian Mental Health Association)

Normal grief reactions may include any of these symptoms:









If a person feels that life is no longer worth living, they need to get help as soon as possible. They should call a crisis line, visit the Emergency Room of a hospital or call a health care provider.

Grief is a complex experience as feelings, thoughts, reactions and challenges related to grief are very personal. To help better understand a grieving process someone may be going through, here are five phases:

Denial/numbness – The grieving person feels numb, which is a defence mechanism that allows them to survive emotionally.

Searching and yearning – Many emotions are expressed during this time and may include weeping, anger, anxiety, and confusion.

Bargaining – The normal reaction to feelings of helplessness and vulnerability is often a need to regain control. Secretly, the grieving person may make a deal with a higher power in an attempt to postpone the inevitable and to protect themselves from the painful reality.

Disorganization and despair – Feelings of pining and yearning become less intense while periods of apathy, meaning an absence of emotion, and despair increase.

Reorganization and recovery – the grieving person begins to return to a new state of “normal.” Energy levels increase and an interest to return to enjoyable activities returns. Grief never ends but thoughts of sadness and despair are diminished while positive memories of the deceased take over.

Remember that grieving is a personal process therefore the way and pace of the mourning may vary depending on the culture, circumstances of loss (whether it is sudden or expected) and the nature of relationship with the deceased.

"People express or talk about grief in different ways, but we all feel grief after a loss. In most cases, people navigate through grief with help from loved ones and other supporters and, in time, go back to their daily life.” (Canadian Mental Health Association)

"Some people need extra help from a mental health professional. Grief can be more complicated when the loss is sudden or unexpected, frightening, the result of an accident or disaster, or the result of a crime. Other factors also play a role. A person’s experience of mental illness, lack of personal and social supports, and difficult personal relationships can also affect the impact of grief. Grief counselling supports people through difficulties around grief." (Canadian Mental Health Association)

Depending on the needs and preferences of the grieving person it is possible to have access to individual and/or group therapy.

As explained in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder (the DSM-5); "Part of their reaction to such a loss, some grieving individuals present with symptoms characteristic of a major depressive episode - for example, feelings of sadness and associated symptoms such as insomnia, poor appetite, and weight loss. The bereaved individual typically regards the depressed mood as "normal," although the individual may seek professional help for relief of associated symptoms such as insomnia or lack of appetite."

Medications are sometimes used: these may include (but not limited to); antidepressants, anti-anxiety medications and/or sedative medication may help manage the reactive symptoms. A treating physician will prescribe the most suitable treatment, if needed.

It is important to be educated about any medications that are taken for any illness, and it is no different for medications taken for any symptoms related to grief.

"It is important to maintain healthy habits as this can help relieve tension and stress and make you less vulnerable to depression and mood changes."

It is very important for grieving people to take care of themselves during this time. Here are some tips from the Canadian Mental Health Association that may be helpful:

Grief can have a dramatic effect on life style habits, and it can be challenging to maintain adequate nutrition, get regular exercise and physical activity as well as sticking to a proper sleep schedule. It is important to maintain healthy habits as this can help relieve tension and stress and make you less vulnerable to depression and mood changes.

Some self-care activities that may help relieve or prevent heightened symptoms throughout a grieving process and help other treatments work more appropriately.





It is always easier to make positive lifestyle changes with the support of others. Involving friends and family in the “get-better” plan may be helpful if a person is comfortable discussing their goals and treatment plan with them. For example, exercise with a friend, make healthy recipes for the entire family at mealtimes and participate in group activities.

The grieving process is different from one person to another and can be affected by biological, psychological and social factors. Symptoms may sometimes return months or years after they first go away. This is called relapse. The good news is that relapse can be prevented if the right plan is put into place. Here are some tips that we believe are part of a good relapse prevention plan.

If there has been an absence from the workplace, preparing to return to work may seem overwhelming, especially after being away for an extended period of time. To help make the return to work successful, the following tips may help.

HELPGUIDE.org

Web MD

Canadian Mental Health Association Mental Health for all (cmha.ca)

 Axelrod, J. (2006). The 5 Stages of Loss and Grief. Psych Central. Retrieved on October 8, 2014 from http://psychcentral.com/lib/the-5-stages-of-loss-and-grief/000617.

 American Psychiatric Association (2013); Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder; Fifth Edition

 Grief Cycle model first published in On Death & Dying, Elisabeth Kübler-Ross, 1969


              Copyright © 1999-2024 The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company (Manulife)
            

