I 

A Critical Incident (or Significant Event) is normally a traumatic event that creates a strong emotional reaction. This reaction may interfere with an individual’s ability to manage normal day-to-day activities or have a large negative impact on the people involved or community members that have in some way been involved. We have a large population of people from diverse backgrounds and experiences from all around the world. A caring and healthy community looks out for community members that may be impacted and responds with empathy and compassion.

Note: Health & Counselling also provides education, training, and consultation to assist campus community members in supporting suicidal students and students in distress. Call the front desk to connect.

People and communities are resilient. They often have the resources to manage the impact of a critical event without the intervention of a professional care provider. This is to be encouraged, as it helps people and communities build their resilience and coping skills, as well as confidence in these skills, on their own.

Resources to know about and share:

Student Services is available by contacting the Office of the Vice Provost Students & International at avps@sfu.ca or 778.782.4170 to help with assessing and coordinating an appropriate response.

Examples of types of Critical Incidents:

What is Critical Incident stress?

Physical

Emotional

Cognitive/Thinking

Behavioural

Below are some examples of common responses that can occur and are sometimes requested after a Critical Incident.  An initial assessment is important to determine what actions should be taken and when. A large event may require broader crisis response planning. Student Services can assist by coordinating various care supports from across campus.

Defusing

Information Session or Town Hall

Facilitated Support

Facilitated supports can range from informal arrangements to more formal, structured interventions. Every situation can be unique and may require a variety of supports, such as Health and Counselling, Interfaith, Security, Student Conduct or external resources, as well as coordinated planning and communications. Proper assessment is important.

These options can be explored in more details by contacting the Office of the Vice Provost Students & International at avps@sfu.ca or 778.782.4170.

What you can do to help yourself

What you can do to help others

It is important to be respectful and confidential of other people's private information at all times, and you should not share information unnecessarily. However, if you are concerned about the health, well-being or safety of a person, it is appropriate to contact Campus Safety & Security, Health & Counselling Services, SFU Student Conduct Office or to escalate your concern to your supervisor. 

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


