Instruction: Change of selection promptly shifts the focus to a matching heading further down, on the same page.

Dealing with a dependence on alcohol and/or drugs, accompanied by intense and sometimes uncontrollable cravings and compulsive behaviours to obtain substances isn’t easy but there are treatments that may help. With the proper treatment, support and self-care a person can recover from substance use disorder and take back control of their life.

Substance use disorders are complex and chronic conditions that begin slowly and are difficult to treat. They are not well understood by many people, and there is often a belief that someone with substance use disorder could stop using their substance of choice if they set their mind to it or decided to change their behaviour. This is rarely the case, as addictive substances cause changes in the way that brain cells normally communicate and process information.

Problems with substance use develop gradually over time. However, ongoing use of alcohol or drugs does not always lead to substance use disorders, regardless of the amount or frequency used. Problems with substance use are related to the consequences of the substance use rather than the amount used or the frequency of use.

Similar to other medical disorders, there are certain risk factors that contribute to the likelihood of someone developing a problem with substance use. These include:

Substance use and other mental illnesses

The relationship between substance use and other mental health illnesses is complex and a person can have more than one diagnosis. Substance use disorders are often seen with other mental health conditions and the term “concurrent disorder” is used to identify this combination. A significant risk factor for developing a problem with substance use is having symptoms, or a family history, of another mental health condition such as depression, anxiety or bipolar disorder.

In some instances, people may use drugs or alcohol to try to control symptoms of these other conditions. In the long run, this can lead to problems with substance use and make symptoms of mental illness worse.

Although one condition may be identified as most problematic, all require treatment. The treatment for concurrent disorders addresses the symptoms of substance use disorder and other mental health conditions at the same time. The treatment for substance use disorders should include learning to recognize symptoms of anxiety or depression, learning skills and strategies to manage these symptoms, and developing different ways to cope with unpleasant thoughts and feelings.

People can become dependent on different types of substances, and although the physical effects of those substances may differ, the symptoms of substance use disorder are generally the same for different substances.

The diagnosis of substance use disorder is based on a set of behaviours or criteria related to the use of the substance. The criteria relate to impaired control of use of drugs or alcohol, social impairment related to use, risky behaviours related to use and pharmacological effects. The severity of the condition is determined by how many criteria are met. A mild condition meets two or three criteria, moderate condition meets four or five criteria, and a severe substance use problem meets six or more of the following criteria.

Often, people with a substance use disorder will downplay the problem and try to conceal their symptoms and at times the people around them - including family, friends and co-workers - may notice warning signs.If you see these warning signs in someone you know it’s important to speak up and address them without being judgmental. People often need help to recognize that their substance use is a problem.

An assessment and recommendations by an addictions counsellor or doctor may help to determine which type of treatment may be appropriate for an individual.

Treatment usually begins by managing withdrawal symptoms. After withdrawal, there is generally an intensive period of treatment ranging from one to three months in duration which consists of psycho-education and counselling. This treatment focuses on learning alternate habits and how to resist cravings. This is followed by a period of aftercare which can be life-long. Aftercare may include counselling or attending peer support groups in the community. During this period of aftercare, most people are able to return to their usual work or school with the support of their treatment providers.

Even after long periods of abstinence people may continue to crave alcohol or drugs and may begin to use again. That is why treating this condition can be very challenging and most people require long-term or repeated care to regain productive functioning in the family, at work and in society.

There are a wide variety of treatment approaches which are included in accredited treatment programs, because different people respond best to different types of treatment. These may include residential or outpatient treatment, individual or group therapy, as well as self-help or peer led support groups. In addition, there are also medications that may be helpful.

Medication may help to control withdrawal symptoms. However, this is only the first step in treatment and will not help a person to stop using a drug. Medication can sometimes also be used to re-establish normal brain function or curb cravings. There are different medications that are used for various substances and supervised by a treatment program.

These programs provide intensive treatment, including group and individual counselling that may help people find alternatives to substance use.

These programs incorporate a wide range of group and individual counselling modalities, similar to residential programs, that people can access on an outpatient basis.

Different types of counselling may help individuals recognize the need to change behaviour and to manage their addiction. These may include:

Maintaining adequate nutrition, regular physical activity and sticking to a proper sleep schedule can help relieve tension and stress. This is important to help maintain the strength that is needed to apply the skills and techniques learned in treatment. Taking care of ourselves also leaves us less vulnerable to depression and mood changes.

The urge to use the drug or drink alcohol may not go away and may be triggered by certain situations. Planning ahead for these situations can be helpful. Work with your treatment provider to develop a plan to follow when faced with an urge to use or if you find yourself in a situation where it is difficult to control the urge.

It is easier to make positive lifestyle changes with the support of others. Involving friends and family in a “get-better” plan may be helpful if a person is comfortable discussing their goals and treatment plan with them. For example, exercise with a friend, make healthy recipes for the entire family at mealtimes and participate in group activities.

Arrange for continued support. Self-help groups organized by mental health advocacy associations are a great resource for information, counselling and support. Self-help workbooks and websites (from a trusted source such as a national mental health association) can also provide practical advice.

Here are some self-care activities that may help to develop and maintain a heathy lifestyle and/or help other treatments work more effectively.

The urge to use the drug or drink alcohol may not go away and may be triggered by certain situations. The good news is that planning ahead for these situations can be helpful to keep you on the right track.

If there was an absence from the workplace, preparing to return to work may seem overwhelming, especially after being away for an extended period of time. To help make the return to work successful, the following tips may help.

With the right help, the right information, and the right support, people with substance abuse problems can maintain a productive and rewarding life. Change takes time and may be a lifelong process.

Canadian Centre on Substance Abuse

Government of Canada – Problematic substance use

Helpguide.org
Mayo Clinic- Risk Factors
Archived Gove Canada Report: Best Practices Substance Abuse Treatment and Rehabilitation
Drug Abuse and Addiction: Signs, Symptoms, and Help for Drug Problems & Substance Abuse
DrugFacts: Treatment Approaches for Drug Addiction
The Connection Between Mental Illness and Substance Abuse | Dual Diagnosis
Substance Abuse & Mental Health: Substance Abuse and Co-Occurring Disorders
CAMH: Statistics on Mental Illness and Addictions
Concurrent Disorders | Substance Abuse in Canada 2009


              Copyright © 1999-2024 The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company (Manulife)
            

