F T I

Your journey at SFU is unique to you. Learn to navigate your way towards academic success by first getting to know the services and resources readily accessible to all students. Lean on these supports throughout your undergraduate studies to help you achieve your personal goals, reach academic milestones, and nurture your well-being.

Your journey at SFU is unique to you. Learn to navigate your way towards academic success by first getting to know the services and resources readily accessible to all students. Lean on these supports throughout your undergraduate studies to help you achieve your personal goals, reach academic milestones, and nurture your well-being.

Enrolment services

Finances

Advising

Career and volunteer

Find support for course planning and enrolment, tuition fees and payment plans, official documents, ID cards and U-Pass, academic records, graduation application, and many other services related to degree completion.

Visit Enrolment Services

Connect with an academic advisor to help plan your academic goals and explore self-guided resources to discover ways to keep your degree plans on track with academic readiness and success.

Visit Advising Services

Financial readiness is a critical step in planning your education. Understand your financial commitments, learn more about various forms of financial assistance available to SFU students, and important deadlines to remember. 

learn more

Enrich your student experience through work, co-op and volunteer opportunities on and off-campus, and strengthen connections with your peers, the SFU community, and employers.

learn more

The support we provide throughout your studies also extends beyond academics. We can assist with your personal student needs, whether it’s physical and mental health and well-being, accessibility requirements, spiritual and faith-based matters, international and newcomer student advising, Indigenous community spaces and guidance, rights and safety concerns, and more.

Health and counselling

Indigenous student centre

Accessible Learning 

Residence and housing

Multifaith Centre

The support we provide throughout your studies also extends beyond academics. We can assist with your personal student needs, whether it’s physical and mental health and well-being, accessibility requirements, spiritual and faith-based matters, international and newcomer student advising, Indigenous community spaces and guidance, rights and safety concerns, and more.

Health and counselling

Accessible learning

Multifaith centre

Indigenous Student Centre

Residence and housing

Having a plan for your journey at SFU will help you feel confident in your educational path and supported every step of the way.

We’ve compiled and shared helpful information in these pages to guide and prepare you for some key things you’ll encounter as a university student, which ultimately have an effect on successful degree completion: from financing and budgeting for your studies, to strategically managing your course load, to taking care of your physical and mental well-being along the way.

Learn to budget for and calculate an estimate of your costs per term, apply for financial aid, seek income opportunities, and more.

Learn about course loads and how to balance them each term, plan for timely degree completion, and more.

When you apply to SFU, you'll choose a faculty and a program. But that's just where you start. Once you're here, you'll have the freedom to explore different courses, programs, and disciplines.

Browse programs apply now

RIS phone: 778.782.6930

LiveHelp

See hours of operation

 

8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


