The Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities is a resource for students, faculty and staff. Students can find out about their responsibilities and rights as members of the SFU community, and learn about the supports available to them. Faculty and staff can share concerns and consult with the office to ensure appropriate responses and level of supports are provided to students. 

Find out more about your responsibilities and rights, and the supports available to you as a member of the SFU community. 

If you or someone else is in immediate danger: call 911. 

For all other student support concerns, contact the Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities.

Non-emergency referral should be directed to The Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibilities.

Monday – Friday: 9:00 am - 4:30 pm
Weekends & holidays: Closed

Phone: 778.782.5699
Email: ssrr@sfu.ca
Online: Share a concern 

Share a Concern

Read FAQs

As a student at SFU, you are entitled to learning, studying and working in an environment that is civil, safe and respectful of your rights, well-being and dignity. It is important to know that SFU is concerned with a student's conduct and actions if they have a negative impact on other students, staff or faculty and the learning, teaching and work environment.

The Office of Student Support, Rights & Responsibility is here to help you better understand the supports available to you at SFU and your rights and responsibilities as members of the SFU community. We strongly believe that with a solid understanding of your rights and responsibilities, you'll be better equipped to raise concerns for yourselves and for others. Your personal safety and well-being is our primary concern, so that you can focus on being students and enjoy your educational journey.

SFU is committed to creating a community characterized by honesty, civility, inclusion, free inquiry, mutual respect, individual safety and freedom from harassment and discrimination. The Office of Student Support supports this by:

The S 10.05 Student Conduct Policy sets out SFU’s expectations for student behaviour, processes available to address complaints and procedural fairness.

You can read the S10.05 Student Conduct Policy on the Policies and Procedures web site.

For information and resources related to academic misconduct and academic integrity, refer to the Academic Integrity web site.

Faculty and staff can consult with the office when concerns about a student’s safety, well-being or impact upon others is present. We will work with you to develop an approach to appropriately intervene, and provide support for the student. Sometimes this involves administering the Student Conduct Policy as part of the response.

Identify the experience or behaviour you are witnessing—then read the recommended response.

You are uncomfortable with a student's behaviour but the student is not acting in a way that is distressed, disruptive, disturbing or dangerous. Read more →

A student seems distressed in word, appearance or action but behaviour is not disruptive. Read more →

A student's behaviour is disruptive: examples include yelling or refusing to follow direction; sending numerous repetitive emails or phone calls. Read more →

A student's behaviour is disturbing: examples include aggression, though not directed at specific people; destruction or damage to property; indirect aggressive words or actions; fascination with violence by words or action. Read more →

A student discloses a history of violence (as participant or recipient) and/or fear of someone coming to harm them.

and/or

A student exhibits persistent, unwanted or obsessive contact or other harassment by phone, email or in person. Read more →

A student expresses by word or action a direct threat to harm self or others. Read more →

Download our Students in Distress - Response Guide for Faculty and Staff for more information.

FacebookTwitterYouTube

