Instruction: Change of selection promptly shifts the focus to a matching heading further down, on the same page.

Each day, many people struggle with worry, tension and nervousness which are common signs of anxiety. But there is good news! Some forms of anxiety have very little effect on one’s personal or work life (e.g., some phobias) whereas others can be managed and even prevented with the right treatment, support and self-care.

Anxiety is a common experience and something that everyone encounters to some degree as they face their fears and life’s challenges and stresses. Anxiety can range from mild to severe and it is the key feature of a group of mental health illnesses called “anxiety disorders”.

"About one in 10 people experience severe anxiety in the form of an anxiety disorder."

Some of the features of anxiety disorders include anxiety that occurs more days than not for weeks or months, fear of being publicly embarrassed, panic, or constant worries that are out of proportion to the environment and situation.

For many people, anxiety is not severe enough to interfere with work and personal life. But for others, and for some forms of anxiety, serious problems can arise if anxiety is ignored or left untreated. For example, some anxiety can cause family and social problems and leave its sufferers housebound. Additionally, attempts to reduce anxiety and self-medicate with alcohol or other drugs can lead to substance abuse problems. Untreated anxiety can also contribute to the onset of depression.

Stress and uncertainty can leave anyone feeling anxious. This is normal and nothing to be particularly concerned about. But anxiety is a problem when it is overwhelming or when it interferes with personal and work life. Having any of the following symptoms continuously for more than two weeks requires seeking medical assistance or advice, such as talking to a health care provider (e.g., family doctor).



No single symptom is diagnostic of an anxiety disorder but all of these symptoms should be taken seriously and all can be treated. Some symptoms may also indicate an underlying medical condition (though this is rare) and only expert evaluation can rule this out.

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is characterized by non-specific and excessive worries about almost anything, all the time (called “free floating anxiety”). People with GAD experience chronic and uncontrollable worry and feel constantly “on edge.” GAD leads to fatigue, difficulty concentrating, and insomnia, among other problems.

Panic is an unexpected “burst” of excessive anxiety usually interpreted as a signal that something is terribly wrong (e.g., the person believes they are dying or having a heart attack). It is characterized by panic attacks - sudden and intense fear that may cause physical feelings such as a racing heart, shortness of breath or nausea. These attacks may seem to happen for no reason at all and people who experience panic disorder fear more attacks. In an effort to avoid triggering them, some people may change their routine.

Agoraphobia is the fear of being in a situation where escape is difficult or help is hard to obtain if they experience a panic attack or other feelings of anxiety. Left untreated, more and more places are avoided and a person can become housebound.

Social anxiety disorder is an exaggerated fear of social situations in which one’s behaviour can be scrutinized and evaluated by others. Thus, eating, writing, speaking, or any occasion where a person can be observed by others can provoke intense anxiety. Social phobia is sometimes confused with shyness but it is far more severe and leads to isolation and severely impaired social relationships.

Ranging from mild to severe and encompassing any number of possible fears, phobias are a heightened and irrational fear of a specific object or situation that poses no real threat. Common phobias include fear of enclosed spaces (claustrophobia), fear of heights (acrophobia) and fear of flying (aviophobia). Phobias don’t usually interfere with personal and work life unless the feared situation is something encountered often or that cannot be avoided (e.g., fear of flying for a business traveller).

Some mental illnesses are no longer classified as anxiety disorders although anxiety or fear is a significant component of these illnesses.

Post-traumatic stress disorder can affect individuals who have survived a severe physical or mental trauma or have witnessed such an event (e.g., abuse, assault, robbery, accident or natural disasters). Symptoms include emotional numbness, intense flashbacks, nightmares and avoidance of situations or activities that are reminders of the event.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder is associated with repetitive, uncontrollable, and irrational thoughts that usually involve themes of harm, danger or contamination (e.g., fear of leaving a stove on or becoming contaminated from touching doorknobs). The anxiety that accompanies these obsessions is relieved only when certain behaviours are performed (e.g., constant checking, excessive hand washing). These behaviours are called “compulsions” because the anxiety sufferer is compelled to do them to find some relief. However, the compulsions themselves consume so much time and energy that they may impair a person’s ability to function in social and occupational situations.

"Anxiety disorders are the most treatable of all mental illnesses"

Medication and counselling are two very effective treatments for anxiety. Medications are typically prescribed by physicians and psychiatrists, while counselling is provided by mental health professionals (e.g., psychologists, counsellors). Health care providers should be licensed to practice and trained to treat anxiety. Self-care and treatment/therapy recommendations should also be continued between sessions for optimal results.

If anxiety is severe and interferes with a person’s ability to function effectively, medication may be called for. Antidepressant medications are often used to treat anxiety: citalopram (e.g., Celexa®), fluoxetine (e.g., Prozac®), paroxetine (e.g., Paxil®), sertraline (e.g., Zoloft®) and venlafaxine (e.g., Effexor®), among others. Not all antidepressants have official indications for the treatment of all anxiety disorders and sometimes it is a matter of trying different medications to determine the most effective kind and dose. Health care providers will prescribe the most suitable treatment medication, when necessary.

Anxiolytic medications (includes benzodiazepines and buspirone) may help with acute anxiety or agitation or while other medications have not yet taken effect. While benzodiazepines may reduce anxiety quickly, their use should be carefully monitored because of their potential for dependence.

It is important to be educated about any medications that are taken for any illness, and it is no different for medications taken for anxiety. Here are some general questions to ask a doctor or pharmacist:

Consult a doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions about medication.

As with medications, there are different kinds of counselling and psychotherapy.

Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). This may be an effective counselling method for treating anxiety and it can help to eliminate severe or mild levels of anxiety. Some of the techniques of CBT that are most helpful are relaxation techniques, gradual exposure to situations that trigger anxiety, problem-solving skills to deal with stressors, and challenging anxiety-provoking thoughts.

A large component of CBT is educational - learning the source of anxiety, recognizing that symptoms are not a sign of ill health, and realizing how avoidance of fearful situations prolongs anxiety.

Mindfulness. Mindfulness-based interventions may also be integrated into therapy and are becoming increasingly common. Mindfulness refers to developing the ability to connect to the present moment rather than dwelling on regrets about the past or worries about the future. Connecting to the present allows us to create new and healthier ways to respond to life’s challenges.

“Mindfulness is the practice of present moment, non-judgemental awareness of one's life experience. Through the use of mind/body techniques, one begins to relate to the stress and anxiety in life differently in ways that allow for more creative solutions and possibilities.” (Mindfulness Everyday®)

If anxiety is complicated by other problems, like depression or substance abuse, treatment may involve a few more techniques and it may take a bit longer, but it can be effective.

Ask questions and learn about treatment options. Regardless of the type of therapy chosen (medication and/or counselling), personal preferences and motivation will be important for success.


When a person experiences anxiety, key ingredients of a healthy lifestyle can suffer - diet, physical activity levels and sleep. Relaxation is one of the most straightforward and effective ways to manage anxiety. Additionally, maintaining good nutrition, staying active and sticking to a regular sleep schedule can help relieve tension and stress and leave a person less vulnerable to anxiety and its symptoms.

Shallow breathing and dizziness play a dual role in anxiety. They are symptoms and they also make anxiety worse. Thus, slow, relaxed breathing may help eliminate anxiety. Here is one technique to slow breathing:

Practicing low and slow breathing before entering situations that are stressful or that trigger anxiety (e.g., rush hour traffic, public speaking and difficult workplace meetings) may help to make them less stressful. Begin with situations that are mildly stressful or anxiety-provoking and gradually work up to more stressful situations.

It is important to learn about anxiety and its triggers to better plan to change or avoid these triggers. One technique for keeping track of triggers is to keep a diary of levels of anxiety throughout the day (e.g., every half hour) using a rating scale from zero (no anxiety) to 10 (extreme anxiety). Is there a pattern to the anxiety? Do certain situations or circumstances trigger anxiety? Does anything help alleviate it?

Self-talk refers to the dialogue that goes on inside a person's head when faced with a challenge that causes anxiety. Negative self-talk worsens anxiety (e.g., "I can't do this.") and positive self-talk can reduce it (e.g., "I can get through this."). Changing negative self-talk involves first becoming aware of this inner dialogue (e.g., writing down negative thoughts when they occur, noticing if certain thoughts occur when anxiety is worse or better). Next, change patterns of self-talk by changing negative words to something neutral or positive (e.g., "I CAN handle this," "things will be okay," "this is a good time to breathe low and slow.").

Reducing or eliminating caffeine may help to reduce anxiety. Since caffeine has addictive properties, gradual reduction is usually recommended (e.g., cutting coffee or tea consumption in half for a week, then in half again, continuing until there is no more caffeine to be cut out of the diet). Herbal teas that do not contain caffeine can be used to replace caffeinated beverages.

Physical tension accumulates throughout the day, and this tension may contribute to anxiety. Frequent, short "stress breaks" may help to prevent this tension from accumulating. Some examples of effective stress breaks are walking during lunch hour, reading a magazine during an afternoon break and partaking in an enjoyable hobby on evenings and weekends.

"It is always easier to make positive lifestyle changes with the support of others"

Involving friends and family in the “get-better” plan may be helpful if a person is comfortable discussing their goals and treatment plan with them. For example, exercise with a friend, make healthy recipes for the entire family at mealtimes and participate in group activities.

Anxiety sometimes returns months or years after it first goes away. This is called relapse. The good news is that relapse can be prevented if the right plan is put into place.

If there was an absence from the workplace, preparing to return to work may seem overwhelming, especially after being away for an extended period of time. These tips may help:

With the right help, the right information and the right support anxiety can be controlled. People with anxiety can maintain a productive and rewarding life.

Visit these websites for more information:

Canadian Mental Health Association

Mood Disorders Society of Canada

Canadian Psychological Association

The Centre for Mindfulness Studies

Statistics Canada: Section B - Anxiety disorders
Canadian Mental Health Association
PyschCentral® Learn. Share. Grow


              Copyright © 1999-2024 The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company (Manulife)
            

