Instruction: Change of selection promptly shifts the focus to a matching heading further down, on the same page.

Each of us experiences a variety of moods throughout our daily lives - including joy, sadness and anger. Sometimes these moods last a few moments and sometimes longer. For people with bipolar disorder, these moods are often more extreme and may cycle rapidly from high to low. There is good news! With the right treatment, support and self-care, it’s possible to restore mood balance and take control.

Bipolar disorder - formerly known as manic depressive illness - is a brain and behaviour disorder, classified as a mood disorder. A key characteristic is the experience of alternating episodes of mania and depression which involve dramatic changes in mood, energy and behaviour. These episodes can last from hours to months, and the mood/behaviour disturbances may be severe enough to affect the person’s ability to function in everyday life - at school, at work, and in social and family contexts. There may also be significant or serious consequences for the person and the family, especially if the disorder is not recognized early and effectively treated.

Although there is no definite cure, bipolar disorder can be managed. Developmentally, the condition typically starts in late adolescence or early adulthood, although it may appear in children and in older adults. The Canadian Mental Health Association reports that more than two per cent of the population will have some form of bipolar disorder at some point in their lives, and about one per cent of people will experience some form of bipolar disorder in the past year.

Both women and men are affected at approximately the same rate. Risk for developing this disorder may be higher in people who have first-degree relatives with this diagnosis (e.g., parent, sibling or offspring). Although we don’t know the exact cause, there is some research that suggests an underlying abnormality in the way some nerve cells in the brain function and communicate which makes some people more vulnerable to physical and psychological stress and triggers the disorder.

Bipolar disorder is diagnosed by a physician or mental health professional. Symptoms of bipolar disorder are cyclical with an irregular pattern of depressive and manic episodes over time; because of this, it sometimes takes time to come to the correct diagnosis. In addition, the symptoms of this disorder can mimic other disorders (e.g., hyperthyroidism), so it’s important to seek medical attention in order to rule out other medical conditions.

Bipolar disorder can also masquerade as a problem other than mental illness (e.g., alcohol or drug abuse, poor work performance), and in its milder forms it can go unrecognized by family, friends and even health professionals. Once other medical disorders are ruled out, typically a mental health professional will be consulted for specialized assessment and to provide appropriate ongoing care.

Diagnosis is through face-to-face evaluation by a psychiatrist or other allied health care professional with specialized expertise in mood disorders, often using clinical tools such as the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). There is no simple diagnostic test available at this time - for example a brain scan or blood test – that specifically identifies bipolar disorder.

The highs and lows that characterize bipolar disorder are called episodes. The essential feature of bipolar disorder is the occurrence of one or more manic episodes. A manic episode is a period during which the person’s mood is persistently elevated, unrestrained or irritable for at least one week. A certain number of other symptoms need to be present and severe enough to impair the ability to function in social settings or at work.

Mania: Symptoms of mania include, but are not limited to:

Depression: A depressive episode is diagnosed if someone has symptoms that last most of the day, nearly every day, for an extended period of time (e.g., two weeks or more). These symptoms may include but are not limited to:

A person who is experiencing a severe bipolar episode may also have symptoms such as hallucinations or delusions. This refers to the inability to tell the difference between reality and unreality: hearing or sensing the presence of things that others say are not there (hallucinations) or strongly holding false beliefs that are not explained by logic or cultural concepts (delusions).

The risk of suicide in bipolar disorder over the lifetime is estimated to be over 15 times that of the general population. 

The proper diagnosis of bipolar disorder, early intervention and ongoing support and treatment are crucial to the safety and recovery of persons living with this disorder.

Episodes of mania and depression typically come and go across a life span, with periods of time in between that are relatively - or completely - symptom free. Some people experience these episodes within a single week or even within a single day.

The cycles of depression and mania over time are often unpredictable and of varying length. Most people with bipolar disorder may have extreme cycles only once every few years. Periods of mania/hypomania and depression may occur in distinct episodes or can switch rapidly, even multiple times in one week.

Early recognition and diagnosis of this disorder in its earliest stages is important so that appropriate treatment can begin.

Bipolar disorder is a recurrent illness, meaning that it can occur throughout one’s lifetime. So the best treatment is usually long-term and involves acute management (to manage current symptoms), continuation therapy (to prevent return of symptoms from the same episode) and maintenance (to prevent a recurrence of symptoms in the future). There is no cure for bipolar disorder, but it can be managed effectively.

Treatment usually involves a combination of physical and psychological interventions such as medication, psychotherapy, education, self-care, life skills (coping) strategies, and making use of external supports such as family, friends and formal support groups.

Psychiatrists normally prescribe medications for bipolar disorder. Primary care physicians who do not specialize in psychiatry may also prescribe these medications; however, it is recommended that a psychiatrist should always be consulted for treatment. Medications for bipolar disorder fall into three categories: mood stabilizers, anti-depressants and antipsychotic medications.

Components of appropriate treatment for bipolar disorder may include:

For people with this disorder, it is important to maintain contact with a health care provider, to follow recommended treatment strategies and be alert to changes in mood and physical/psychological well-being that might require changes in the treatment plan.

Talking to a professional about bipolar disorder is essential. By communicating about your personal experience, your symptoms, your challenges and your personal risk factors, you are taking an active role in your care, and assisting your health care providers to understand and effectively treat your condition. You may want to write down what you need to remember or bring someone who can help you to your appointment.

Every individual has a unique recovery journey. The road to well-being is a process that is supported by hope, inner strength, perseverance, and the involvement and support of others.

If you are living with bipolar disorder, it’s important to remember that you can and should be an active participant in your own treatment and recovery.

It is not unusual for an individual living with bipolar disorder to require time away from work to access treatment and stabilize their condition. If there is an absence from work, developing a plan to return to work and eventually returning to work are essential steps on the path to recovery.

Visit these websites for more information:

Canadian Mental Health Association


Canadian Network for Mood and Anxiety Treatments

Mood Disorders Society of Canada

The Organization for Bipolar Affective Disorder


              Copyright © 1999-2024 The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company (Manulife)
            

