Instruction: Change of selection promptly shifts the focus to a matching heading further down, on the same page.

Each day, many people struggle with the persistent low mood and other symptoms that characterize depression. There is good news! With the right treatment, support and self-care a person can recover from depression and take back control of their life.

Everyone feels sad from time to time - it’s a normal part of navigating the challenges and disappointments of everyday life. Sometimes it’s a reaction to the breakup of a relationship, a problem at work or a change in health. These feelings are very common.

Clinical depression is more than a low mood. It can affect a person’s thinking, relationships, ability to carry out family and work responsibilities and physical health. Clinical depression is different from normal sadness. It consumes day-to-day living, interferes with the ability to sleep, eat, work, study, interact with others and have fun. The feelings of helplessness, hopelessness and worthlessness can be intense; it can feel as if there is no relief and that these feelings will never end.

The causes of clinical depression are likely to be different for different people. There is evidence that suggests that many factors may play a part, such as biological and genetic factors, environmental, social and cultural influences and/or childhood or developmental events.

It is not easy to know the exact causes of depression for a particular individual. For instance, an individual may be more at risk for developing depression if they have a first-degree relative with depression (e.g., parent, sibling, offspring).There may also a be a psychological/emotional influence that stems from how they think of themselves, their level of self-esteem and their usual way of reacting to and thinking about things. Examples of environmental influences might include going through a divorce or losing a job. Any of these factors - alone or in combination - might make this person more vulnerable and put them at greater risk for developing depression than someone who does not have such influences.

We also know that sometimes serious depression can appear suddenly and for no apparent reason, while other times it can follow significant life events such as trauma, chronic illness and/or losing a loved one (e.g., grief).

Having the following symptoms continuously for more than two weeks may warrant seeking medical assistance or advice, such as talking to a health care provider (e.g., family doctor or mental health specialist). No single symptom is a diagnosis of depression. All of these symptoms should be taken seriously and can be treated.

Regardless of what causes depression, the most important thing is to recognize that it may be happening and to understand that professional help may be needed.

If a person feels that life is no longer worth living, and is thinking about or planning suicide, it is critical that they seek immediate help. Crisis lines and crisis services are available in many communities. Help may also be obtained by visiting the emergency department at a local hospital. Reaching out to family and friends - and other people that you trust - may make a big difference.

Antidepressant medication and psychotherapy may be very effective treatments for depression. Medications are typically prescribed by physicians and psychiatrists, while psychotherapy, or counselling, is provided by mental health professionals (e.g., psychologists or counsellors). It is important to make sure the health care provider is licensed to practice and trained to treat depression and that self-care and treatment/therapy recommendations are continued between sessions.

Antidepressant medications are used to help manage episodes of depression. There are many available antidepressant medications, for example: fluoxetine (e.g. Prozac©), citalopram (e.g., Celexa®), amitryptaline (e.g. Elavil®), duloxetine (e.g. Cymbalta©), atomoxetine (e.g. Strattera) and others. A treating physician will prescribe the most suitable treatment medication, if necessary.

It is important to be educated about any medications that are taken for any illness, and it is no different for medications taken for anxiety. Here are some general questions to ask a doctor or pharmacist:

A doctor or pharmacist should be consulted if there are any questions about medication.

Antidepressant medications may help improve mood. However, the personal, family, or workplace situations that may have contributed to low mood and other depression symptoms may still be there. Typically, treatment for depression may involve medication, psychotherapy/counselling, as well as lifestyle changes.

Psychotherapy and counselling may help:

As with medication, there are different kinds of psychotherapy that have been shown to help persons living with depression. Some of the most commonly used approaches include:

Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). This therapy helps to identify and change unrealistic and negative thinking that can contribute to depression and its symptoms. Additionally, cognitive therapy helps with the development of healthy behaviours and problem-solving skills.

Interpersonal therapy. This therapy helps with the development of new skills for creating healthy and satisfying relationships with partners, friends, co-workers and family. It may assist with understanding the connection between depression and life events (e.g., grief, conflict at work).

Mindfulness. Mindfulness-based interventions may also be integrated into therapy and are becoming increasingly common. Mindfulness refers to developing the ability to connect to the present moment rather than dwelling on regrets about the past or worries about the future. Connecting to the present allows you to create new and healthier ways to respond to life's challenges.

Psychotherapy may take the form of one-on-one sessions with a therapist; however group therapy may be very useful in depression treatment as well.

In individual therapy, you are building a strong relationship with one person (your therapist). Some people feel more comfortable sharing sensitive information with one person than with a group.

Group therapy has benefits too. Listening to peers going through the same struggles may validate your experiences and help build self-esteem. In groups, participants are often at different stages of recovery, so you might get tips from others about how they have worked through their own process at different points on the path to wellness. Sharing ideas and inspiration may be very beneficial, and group therapy has the added bonus of increasing your social activities and support network.

Medication and psychotherapy both have an important role to play in treating the symptoms of depression and in promoting recovery. These therapies are sometimes used alone or in combination. The choice of which particular therapy is best for depression is always done in consultation with a health care provider. Every individual is different and the approach that works best will be different, depending on particular circumstances.

When thinking about treatment options, your health care provider will likely consider:

When a person experiences depression, a healthy lifestyle can suffer - diet, physical activity levels and sleep. By the same token, maintaining adequate nutrition, regular physical activity and sticking to a proper sleep schedule may help relieve tension, and make a person less vulnerable to depression and mood changes.

Here are some self-care activities that may help relieve symptoms of depression, prevent depression from recurring and help other treatments work more effectively.

It is always easier to make positive lifestyle changes with the support of others. Involving friends and family in a “get-better” plan may be helpful if you are comfortable discussing your goals and treatment plan. For example, exercise with a friend, make healthy recipes for the entire family at mealtimes and participate in group activities.

Every individual has a unique recovery journey. The road to well-being is a process that is supported by hope, inner strength, perseverance, and the involvement and support of others.

If you are living with depression, it’s important to remember that you can and should be an active participant in your own treatment and recovery.

It is not unusual for an individual living with depression to require time away from work to access treatment and stabilize their condition. If there has been an absence from work, developing a plan to return to work and eventually returning to work are essential steps on the path to recovery. These tips will help ensure the return is successful:

Visit these websites for more information:

Canadian Mental Health Association


Canadian Network for Mood and Anxiety Treatments

Centre for Addiction and Mental Health

Mood Disorders Society of Canada

Mood Disorders Association of Ontario


              Copyright © 1999-2024 The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company (Manulife)
            

