

 

Advocacy Office SUB 3301

Please note, the Student Advocate is NOT a lawyer, so if you need LEGAL help, please see:

(Include, but are not limited to)

This office aims to amplify the voices of students by advocating on their behalf and assisting them as they navigate through difficult or crisis situations in the University setting.

The SFSS Advocacy Office is run by the Simon Fraser Student Society (SFSS). The SFSS is a not-for-profit organization that represents all Undergraduate Students at the Simon Fraser University (SFU). The SFSS provides members with a broad range of advocacy work, services, and events. The vision of the SFSS is students thriving everywhere and this is realized through our support of students to reach their full potential by providing resources and services that represent, connect and benefit our membership. Because we are funded by students, for students, we are not obliged to remain neutral which opens options for how we can support students.

To learn more, see sfss.ca.



 

Student Union Building
Room 3301,
(3rd floor, via corridor past elevators)
8888 University High St, Burnaby, BC V5A
Monday (remote), Thursday to Friday (SUB) 10:30am to 5:30pm

studentadv.coord@sfss.ca

We respectfully and gratefully acknowledge that we are located on the ancestral, unceded territories of the Coast Salish peoples, including the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), Sel̓íl̓witulh (Tsleil-Waututh), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem) and q̓icə̓y̓ (Katzie) Nations. Unceded means that these territories have never been handed over, sold, or given up by these nations, and we are currently situated on occupied territories. To learn more about Indigenous territories, please visit native-land.ca.

Advocacy Office FAQ

COVID 19

Centre for Accessible Learning

Illness Forms

Counseling and Mental Health Support

 

Monday – Friday
10am – 4pm

For all media inquiries, please contact mediainquiries@sfss.ca.

SUB 3100
8888 University Drive
Simon Fraser University
Burnaby, BC, V5A 1S6

