I 

For students with disabilities to seek support in a safe environment

Experiencing Disability is a support group designed to provide a space for students with disabilities to seek support in a safe environment. It is restricted to CAL registrants.

Issues include but not limited to:

This group is restricted to CAL (Centre for Accessible Learning) registrants only. Please contact your CAL advisor for referral. 

For information or questions regarding this program, you can contact Sean Heaslip at sean_heaslip@sfu.ca.

Sessions will be held via Zoom.

Thursdays | 1:30 to 3:30pm

*No group during Reading Break

Read about the rest of our staff 

HCS counsellor
sean_heaslip@sfu.ca

Sean is the HCS counsellor liaison with the Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL), and works with CAL registrants, providing individual and group counselling services. Sean works in an experiential and emotion-focused way, and incorporates grounding and regulation techniques to help clients move through painful areas in order to regain their connection to their goals and themselves. Sean is partially blind, and possesses a lived experience of disability in both the broader world, and as a student, as Sean is also a Masters level counsellor, and current PhD candidate in counselling psychology at the University of British Columbia, having completed his pre-doctoral internship at SFU in 2020. Sean’s research areas also focus on disability issues, around seeking psychological services as a person with a disability, and the impact on blind/partially sighted people of receiving unsolicited help from sighted helpers.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


