F T I

The Indigenous Student Centre’s (ISC) Elders Program is designed to provide support, celebrate their contributions, and ensure that their wisdom is passed down through generations. This FAQ page provides clear and helpful answers to the most asked questions. Explore the topics below to get the information you need and see how our program can enrich your event.

What is the Simon Fraser University, Indigenous Student Centre’s Elders Program?
The ISC recognizes that First Nations, Métis and Inuit Elders and Knowledge Shares hold valuable knowledge to share with Indigenous and non-Indigenous students and communities. Indigenous Elders and Knowledge Sharers are frequently invited to Simon Fraser University to share in the opening/closing of events, speak to classes, participate on committees, take part in interviews, and provide support, guidance and spiritual help to students, faculty, and staff. With this in mind, we host numerous Elders and Knowledge Sharers-in-Residence that play various roles across the university. The purpose of this program is to create safe spaces for Indigenous students, foster relationships with Indigenous communities, and implement cultural knowledges and practices.

What is the difference between an Elder and Knowledge Sharer?
An “Elder” is someone recognized as such by other Elders in the SFU Elder’s and Knowledge Sharer’s Program and in the community. They have knowledge of traditional values and culture. The Elders have connections to the local Indigenous community and maintain a positive and respectful attitude towards students and the academic environment they are a part of. Whereas as “Knowledge Sharers” are those who may not be considered an Elder, yet hold traditional knowledges and teachings about their culture.

What is the purpose of having an Elder/Knowledge Sharer at our event and how can it benefit our department?
Including an Indigenous Elder or Knowledge Sharer in your work allows you to start your event off in a good way. The inclusion of traditional knowledge and cultural practices not only creates a welcoming and inclusive environment but recognizes the importance of Indigenous peoples to the land that we live on, work that we do and community around us. Indigenous Peoples have lived on this land since time immemorial and have teachings to share about moving forward in the work that we do in a way that is honest and transparent, takes responsibility for past and future actions, and encourages listening with an open mind and compassionate heart. This also directly reflects one of SFU’s top priorities as outlined in the What’s Next: The SFU Strategy to “Uphold Truth and Reconciliation.” Acknowledging and including Indigenous Peoples in your work contributes to the decolonization process and improving community relationships across SFU.

What is the difference between a territorial welcome and a land acknowledgement?
A “Territorial Welcome” is made by First Nations who are traditionally from this territory, to welcome you to their land and start off your event in a good way. Where as a “Land Acknowledgement” should be made by the host or emcee as they are the ones acknowledging they are guests on this land.

 

This guide has been created by ISC staff in consultation with the current Elder's and Knowledge Keeper's in Residence. When making a request please ensure to read and follow the guide provided.

Read Here

How do I book an Elder/Knowledge Sharer for my department’s event?
Submit an Elder Request Form on the ISC’s Website here.

What information do I need to provide when making a booking?
The Elder Request Form asks for details regarding the requesters contact information, event details, Elder duties and onsite contact, transportation, and honourarium.

How far in advance should I make a booking request?
The sooner you get your request in the better chance our Elders/Knowledge Sharers will be available. However, the deadline to submit a request is 2 weeks prior to your event.

Can I request a specific Elder/Knowledge Sharer with expertise relevant to my event?
Yes, each of our Elders and Knowledge Sharers holds expertise in various fields. When reviewing your request, we do our best to take the event topic/request into consideration when choosing which Elder may be the best fit. Requesters may also request a specific Elder or Knowledge Sharer, but we may not always be able to accommodate.

What types of events are suitable for Elder/Knowledge Sharer participation?
The Elders and Knowledge Sharers work with students, staff, faculty, and the overall community at SFU. Examples of what these duties/offerings/supports/holding of space might look like could include: 

These events should be respectful of the Elder’s time and knowledge, and they should align with the goals of fostering understanding and respect for Indigenous Cultures.

Please note that Elders and Knowledge Sharers are not Counsellors, nor do they offer counselling services.

Can Elders/Knowledge Sharers be involved in long-term projects or only one-time events?
Yes, Elders and Knowledge Sharers are available to participate in one-time events or long-term projects. Request acceptance is up to the discretion of the Elder/Knowledge Sharer.

Are Elders/Knowledge Sharers available for events outside regular university hours?
Yes, availability varies and is up to the discretion of our individual Elders and Knowledge Sharers.

Can Elders/Knowledge Sharers participate in virtual events or only in-person?
Elders/Knowledge Sharers are available for both in-person and virtual events.

Are Elders/Knowledge Sharers available for video recordings to be used on websites or during events?
Yes, Elders and Knowledge Sharers are available for video recordings, screenings and postings at an additional fee. All requested video content is Intellectual Property of the requested Elder or Knowledge Sharer in accordance with the Copyright Act. Please refer to the Elders Program Protocol Guide for more details.

Can Elders/Knowledge Sharers participate in events external to SFU?
No, the ISC Elders Program only offers supports to and accepts requests from SFU Programs and Departments.

What areas of expertise do the Elders/Knowledge Sharers in the program have?
Each of our Elders and Knowledge Sharers hold various knowledges and skills from expertise in archaeology, traditional knowledge, drumming and singing to beading and cedar weaving. You can refer to the Elders and Knowledge Sharers in Residence bios available on the ISC website here to learn more.

What is the process for matching an Elders/Knowledge Sharers expertise with our event’s theme?
The ISC Elders Program Coordinator will take into consideration the event topic, location of the event and Elder/Knowledge Sharer availability when choosing which Elder/Knowledge Keeper to pass the request along to. You may also request a specific Elder or Knowledge Sharer, keeping in mind the request is subject to the Elder’s availability.

 

Do departments need to provide transportation for Elders/Knowledge Sharers?
Yes, it is expected that the event organizer will coordinate and provide transportation via Uber for in-person events. The ISC has created an Uber Guide to support organizers with this process. However, some of our Elders and Knowledge Sharers prefer to drive themselves, in which case it is expected that accessible parking is available for them. In either case an onsite contact is expected to meet the Elder/Knowledge Sharer at the drop off/parking location to escort them to the event.

What are the requirements for hosting an Elder/Knowledge Sharer at an event?
The requirements for host an Elder at your event are:

Submission request - at least two weeks in advance of your event

Confirmation - of request from the ISC  

Event logistics - ensure the Elder or Knowledge Sharer is treated respectfully throughout the event; offer them the option to stay for the entire event; provide refreshments and seating; serve them their meal first (if applicable)

Transportation - Arrange transportation, typically through Uber, unless the Elder would prefer to drive

Gifting - it is customary to present the Elder with a small gift as a sign of respect/ thank you. This does not replace the honourarium.

Payment - Provide an honourarium based on the duration of their participation and ensure that it is presented directly after the event; include any additional travel or parking costs.

Safety and support - ensure that the event location is accessible and assign a Helper to assist the Elder/Knowledge Sharer for the entire duration of their stay.

Post event - please complete a feedback form to provide your thoughts on the Elder/Knowledge Sharer’s participation

How long can we expect an Elder/Knowledge Sharer to stay at our event?
The Elder/Knowledge Sharer will stay at minimum the requested time agreed upon with the organizer—this may be anywhere from 15mins for an opening to 7 hours for a full day event. However, if the Elder/Knowledge Sharer is invited to open an event, it is polite to ask them if they would like to stay for the duration of the event, as an observer and potential participant—this may exceed the agreed upon payment time (at no extra charge) at the discretion of the Elder/Knowledge Keeper.

What should we do if our event’s schedule changes after booking an Elders/Knowledge Sharers?
Please email the Elders Program Coordinator at iscelder@sfu.ca as soon as possible and we will try to accommodate the updated request.

How are Elders/Knowledge Sharers prepared or briefed for the events they attend?
Elders/Knowledge Sharers are given the event details that the requester provides in the request. Please share as much information and details as possible in the event description and Elder duties, in order for the Elder/Knowledge Sharer to connect with the event themes and agenda as much as possible.

Can we promote the Elders/Knowledge Sharers participation in our event through our marketing channels?
Yes, once participation has been confirmed, Elder/Knowledge Sharer participation can be shared throughout your marketing process. Please refer to the ISC website here for bios and pictures.

Why is it customary to present a gift to an Elder/Knowledge Sharer?
To show respect and thanks for their contributions to your event, meeting, ceremony etc. The exchange of a small gift mirrors a contractual agreement between two parties: the Elder or Knowledge Sharer agrees to fulfill the request, and the person presenting the gift commits to caring for the Elder or Knowledge Sharer from the moment of the request to the follow up after the event. It represents a mutual understanding and commitment, honoring the importance of reciprocity and respect in the relationship. To learn more about gifting protocols please refer to the Elders Program Guide.

 

What are the costs associated with booking an Elder/Knowledge Sharer?
Please refer to the honorarium section at the bottom of the Elder Request Form webpage here.

What is the cancellation policy for booking an Elder/Knowledge Sharer?
By the Organizer:
If the event is canceled within 72 hours (3 days) of the scheduled time, the full honorarium must still be provided to the Elder or Knowledge Sharer.

If the event is canceled within 120 hours (1 week) of the scheduled time, 50% of the honorarium is still expected to be paid.

By the Elder/Knowledge Sharer:
If an Elder or Knowledge Sharer needs to cancel due to unforeseen circumstances, they are not expected to be paid for their time. The ISC staff or the Elder will notify the event organizer as soon as possible in such cases.

When should I submit payment for the Elder/Knowledge Sharer?
Payment to the Elder or Knowledge Sharer should be provided immediately after their participation has concluded at your event. It is customary to gift the honorarium at this time to show respect and appreciation for their contribution. For more details about how to process an Elder/Knowledge Sharer payment, please refer to the Elders Program Protocol Guide.

What happens if an Elder/Knowledge Sharer becomes unavailable on the day of the event?
The ISC staff or the Elder will notify you via email and/or phone call in the event of a cancellation.

 

How can we provide feedback about our experience with the Elder/Knowledge Sharer?
After your event has concluded, the ISC will email you with a follow-up survey. We ask all organizers to please complete this survey to let us know how the Elder/Knowledge Sharer participation in your event went and how we might be able to improve our program for the future.

 

All further inquiries can be directed to the Elders Program Coordinator at iscelder@sfu.ca.

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


