
                                                Provincial Health Services Authority (PHSA) improves the health of British Columbians by seeking province-wide solutions to specialized health care needs in collaboration with BC health authorities and other partners.
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            


Page ContentAbout the ProgramBC Cancer Cervix Screening has oversight responsibility for cervix screening in BC. The program reminds
healthcare providers when their patients are due for screening, tracks adherence to screening
recommendations, and monitors system performance and outcomes of cervix screening activities. BC is transitioning from cytology (Pap test) to HPV testing as the primary screening method for cervical cancer. Cervix self-screening is recommended every five years for women and people with a cervix ages 25-69 (or every three years for those who are recommended to have a Pap test).Screening tests are analyzed and results are provided by the Cervical Cancer Screening Laboratory (CCSL),
which is operated by PHSA’s Provincial Laboratory Medicine Services. You might be looking for....Latest HPV Transition Updates BULLETIN: Cervix Screening in BC: Transitioning from Cytology (Pap Test) to HPV Primary Screening April 2024 (PDF)WEBINAR: Implementing HPV-Based Cervical Cancer Screening in BC: Early Outcomes and Answering Your Questions | June 5, 2024 at 6:30-8:00 pm PT | Register How to Order Self-Screening Supplies Who can order self-screening swabsHealth care providers (such as physicians, nurse practitioners, midwives, registered nurses) who possess the competencies required to appropriately assess patient eligibility for cervix screening and to support patients with recommended follow-up care, can order the self-screening devices.How to order self-screening swabsStarting on January 29th, cervix self-screening swabs will be available on the Cervix Screening Supplies online system  for health care providers or community health clinics to order. This is the same system currently used to order LBC/Pap test supplies. If your clinic has not used the Cervix Screening Supplies online system before, enrol your clinic by completing the Cervix Screening Supplies registration form.As a reminder, before offering self-screening to a patient, ensure the patient is due and eligible for self-screening to avoid risks associated with over-screening. Please refer to the  Resource Guide for Health Care Providers to become familiar with the eligibility criteria.Helpful Documents  Program OverviewAn overview of the BC Cancer Cervix Screening Program detailing eligibility and screening recommendations.Cervix Self-Screening at the Clinic Instructions Cervix Self-Screen or LBC Sample Collection AlgorithmCervix Screening GuidelinesAnyone with a cervix, including women and TTGD individuals, age 25 to 69 should get screened regularly for cervical cancer.Average Risk Age 24 and under Routine screening is not recommended. Age 25 to 69 ‎With a cervixScreen with a vaginal swab or a provider-collected liquid-based cytology
(LBC) sample. Have or have not received the HPV vaccineScreen with a vaginal swab or a provider-collected liquid-based cytology
(LBC) sample. Have had any sexual contact with another person of any gender.Screen with a vaginal swab or a provider-collected liquid-based cytology
(LBC) sample. PregnantScreen with a provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample if screening is due or overdue. Screening is not necessary as a routine part of pre-natal screening for those who are up to date with screening.Self-screening is not recommended for patients who are pregnant. Subtotal hysterectomy (cervix not removed), with no prior history of CIN 2, CIN 3, AIS or cervical carcinomaScreen with a vaginal swab or a provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample.Cervix removed and has history of CIN 2, CIN 3 or AISScreen with a provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample from the vaginal vault at 12 months post-hysterectomy. The sample will be tested for both HPV and cytology (cotest). Any positive HPV test or a high-grade or glandular cytology result should be referred directly to colposcopy. After a negative cotest, screening can be discontinued.Has a neovaginaScreening is not recommended.Never had sexual contactRoutine screening is not recommended. Delay screening until initiation of sexual contact. Uses a pessaryScreen with a provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample.Self-screening is not recommended for patients who are using a pessary.Age 69 and over Had a negative HPV screen between age 65 and 69 and under no active surveillance of pre-cursor abnormalitiesScreening is not recommended.Inadequate screening history or has not screened in past 5 years and generally well.Screen with a vaginal swab or provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample. Stop routine screening if result is HPV negative. High RiskImmunocompromised Screen with a vaginal swab or provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample every 3 years.Stop screening at age 74 if:There has been a negative HPV screening test between age 65 and 69 and under no active surveillance of pre-cursor abnormalities; orDischarged from colposcopy and have had a negative cotest (HPV and cytology testing) at 12-month follow-up.Exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero Screen with annual colposcopic evaluation of both the cervix and vagina with a cotest (HPV and cytology testing) until age 69.Received excisional treatment for CIN 2 and CIN 3 Discharged from colposcopyAt 12-months post-discharge, screen with a cotest (HPV and cytology testing) using a single provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample through primary care provider:If HPV negative and cytology is NILM, ASCUS or LSIL: Routine HPV based screening at 3-year intervals (average risk) or 1-year interval (immunocompromised).If HPV positive or cytology is ASC-H, HSIL or AGC: Re-refer to colposcopy.Stop screening at age 69 (average risk) or age 74 (immunocompromised) if patient has had a negative cotest (HPV and cytology testing) and under no active surveillance of pre-cursor abnormalities. Received excisional treatment for endocervical adenocarcinoma in situ (AIS)  Discharged from colposcopyAt 12-months post-discharge, screen with a cotest (HPV and cytology testing) using a single provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample through primary care provider:If HPV negative and cytology is NILM, ASCUS or LSIL: Routine HPVbased screening at 3-year intervals (average risk) or 1-year interval (immunocompromised).If HPV positive or cytology is ASC-H, HSIL or AGC: Re-refer to colposcopy.Stop screening at age 69 (average risk) or age 74 (immunocompromised) if patient has had a negative cotest (HPV and cytology testing) and under no active surveillance of pre-cursor abnormalities.History of invasive carcinoma and discharged from cancer treatment (surgery or radiation) by oncologist or colposcopy clinic.The patient’s colposcopist or oncologist is responsible for outlining the post treatment follow-up of a patient diagnosed with cervical cancer for the first 5 years.Once discharged, routine screening is not recommended. Ongoing surveillance for recurrence by someone experienced in cervical disease is recommended.SymptomaticAll agesManagement of Cervix Screening ResultsHPV Invalid Repeat HPV testing. Unless a cotest (HPV and cytology testing) was recommended, a self-screening kit will be sent to the patient at the time of the invalid result notification.If repeat test is invalid, refer to colposcopy.Unsuitable for Testing If specimen identification cannot be confirmed or the sample cannot be tested (e.g., broken container), the Cervical Cancer Screening Laboratory will reject the sample.Unless a cotest (HPV and cytology testing) was recommended, a selfscreening kit will be sent to the patient at the time of the invalid result notification.Unsatisfactory Samples Samples that are inadequate for cytology interpretation due to poor preservation or obscuring elements.Unless a cotest (HPV and cytology testing) was recommended, a selfscreening kit will be sent to the patient at the time of the invalid result notification.High-Risk HPV Negative Re-screen in 5 years.Shorter screening interval recommendation for immunocompromised patients and after treatment for CIN 2, CIN 3 or AIS.High-Risk HPV 16/18 Positive Colposcopy is recommended.If screening is performed with a provider-collected liquid-based cytology (LBC) sample, the Cervical Cancer Screening Laboratory will perform a cytological evaluation to aid in the colposcopist’s decision.If screening is performed with self-screening, colposcopist will collect a cytology sample to aid with management decisions. High-Risk HPV Other Positive with No Cytology Result Colposcopy is recommended.For immunocompromised patients, colposcopy is recommended.High-Risk HPV Other Positive with ASC-H, HSIL or AGC Cytology Colposcopy is recommended. High-Risk HPV Other Positive with Unknown or Unsatisfactory Cytology Result Follow-up cervix screening with primary care provider.If cytology samples are reported as Unsatisfactory on 2 different occasions, colposcopy is recommended.High-Risk HPV Other Positive with Negative (NILM), ASCUS or LSIL Cytology High-Risk HPVRepeat HPV test in 12 months:If HPV Negative: Return to routine screening.If HPV Positive: Refer to colposcopy.  If screening is performed with a provider-collected liquidbased cytology (LBC) sample, the Cervical Cancer Screening Laboratory will perform a cytological evaluation to aid in the colposcopist's decision.If screening is performed with self-screening, colposcopist will collect a cytology sample to aid with management decisions Negative for intraepithelial lesion or malignancy (NILM) Re-screen in 3 years. Low Grade Cytology Atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance(ASCUS)Low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (LSIL)The Cervical Cancer Screening Laboratory will triage the sample to reflex HPV testing.If HPV Negative: Return to routine screening.If HPV 16/18 Positive: Colposcopy is recommended.If HPV Other Positive: Repeat HPV test in 12 monthsHigh Grade Cytology Atypical Squamous Cells of Undetermined Significance (Cannot Rule Out High Grade Lesion) (ASC-H) High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (HSIL), moderate dysplasiaHigh-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (HSIL), severe dysplasiaAtypical Endocervical Glandular Cells—Not Otherwise Specified (AGCNOS)Atypical Endocervical Glandular Cells—Favour Neoplasia (AGC-FN)Endocervical Adenocarcinoma In Situ (AIS)Colposcopy is recommended.Benign Endometrial Cells in Cervical Samples Cervical cytology examination has poor sensitivity for endometrial carcinoma and should not be used as a screening test to either rule in or rule out an endometrial abnormality.Atypical Endometrial Cells or Endometrial Carcinoma Colposcopy is recommended or refer to gynecologist for further evaluation which should include an endometrial biopsy. Possible Extrauterine Carcinoma or Rare Malignancies Features of possible extrauterine carcinoma or rare malignancies may be identified in  cytology samples collected from participants who are HPV positive.Managed on a case-by-case basis and may need a multidisciplinary team approach for management. Contact the Cervical Cancer Screening Laboratory for clarification of the results if needed.


BC Cancer Cervix Screening has oversight responsibility for cervix screening in BC. The program reminds
healthcare providers when their patients are due for screening, tracks adherence to screening
recommendations, and monitors system performance and outcomes of cervix screening activities. 

BC is transitioning from cytology (Pap test) to HPV testing as the primary screening method for cervical cancer. Cervix self-screening is recommended every five years for women and people with a cervix ages 25-69 (or every three years for those who are recommended to have a Pap test).

Screening tests are analyzed and results are provided by the Cervical Cancer Screening Laboratory (CCSL),
which is operated by PHSA’s Provincial Laboratory Medicine Services. 





Program OverviewAn overview of the BC Cancer Cervix Screening Program detailing eligibility and screening recommendations.Cervix Self-Screening at the Clinic Instructions Cervix Self-Screen or LBC Sample Collection Algorithm



Anyone with a cervix, including women and TTGD individuals, age 25 to 69 should get screened regularly for cervical cancer.

Routine screening is not recommended. 

‎With a cervix

Pregnant

Discharged from colposcopy

Colposcopy is recommended.

Re-screen in 3 years.

Does your clinic offer Pap tests on a drop-in basis? Get added to our Clinic Locator.

Copyright ©
                        
                        
                        



 Provincial Health Services Authority. All Rights Reserved.                                                            

