Pharmacists are an important part of your health care team and offer a variety of services. Over 409,000 people have been treated for minor ailments or gotten free contraceptives from pharmacists since June 2023. Book an appointment or walk-in to a pharmacy to find out more.

In addition to consulting on and dispensing prescriptions, pharmacists can: 

Assess and treat 21 minor ailments like urinary tract infections (UTIs), allergies, pink eye, dermatitis, and nicotine dependence
Prescribe and dispense contraceptives (birth control)
Renew or change some prescriptions or provide you with an emergency supply
Administer immunizations and drugs by injection
Help you understand and manage your medications as well as other over-the-counter products
Make recommendations for you to see another health care professional for further assessment
What to bring to the pharmacy
Government-issued ID, like your BC Services Card
Your Personal Health Number (PHN)
Pharmacists are licensed health care professionals. They are bound by the same confidentiality rules as a family doctor or nurse practitioner. Your health information and conversations are private and confidential.

Pharmacies charge different amounts for drugs and for dispensing them. You can compare prices and services before you fill a prescription. If you need help paying for medications and pharmacy services, consider registering for Fair PharmaCare.

Get help with a minor ailment
Pharmacists can assess and treat 21 minor ailments such as UTIs, allergies, pink eye and dermatitis. The service is free for B.C. residents when provided in person, in a pharmacy.

Your visit may include:

A prescription
Advice for self-management
A recommendation to see another health care provider
Minor ailments self-assessment checklist
For severe symptoms or medical emergencies, seek immediate medical attention or call 9-1-1.

If your symptoms match one of the minor ailments below, you can book an appointment or visit a pharmacy for an assessment.