Find More Information on the Government of BC Website

Healthy eating is a pattern of eating that contributes to your best possible health.

Baby’s Best Chance is a reference guide for parents that includes resources on pregnancy, birth and parenting.

Your wellbeing is how you manage the ups and downs of day-to-day life. Learn tips and find resources on how to support your mental wellbeing.

Find information about health topics, medical tests and decision-making tools in our Learning Centre.

Learn about prescription and over-the-counter medications for all types of illnesses.

Register to get a family doctor or nurse practitioner in your community.

People are living longer than ever before. Learn tips for staying healthy and meeting your health needs as you age.

8-1-1 is a free-of-charge provincial health information and advice phone line available in British Columbia. The 8-1-1 phone line is operated by HealthLink BC, which is part of the Ministry of Health. By calling 8-1-1, you can speak to a health service navigator, who can help you find health information and services; or connect you directly with a registered nurse, a registered dietitian, a qualified exercise professional, or a pharmacist. Any one of these healthcare professionals will help you get the information you need to manage your health concerns, or those of your family.

If you are deaf or hard of hearing, you can contact HealthLinkBC 8-1-1 using Video Relay Services (VRS), or Teletypewriter (TTY).

VRS provides the deaf, hard of hearing or speech-impaired with real time sign language interpretation by video. You can use VRS when making telephone calls using Internet and cell-phone based technologies. VRS is free to use for registered deaf, hard of hearing or speech-impaired Canadians who use sign language.

To use VRS, visit Video Relay Services to sign up and give them the number 604-215-5101 to call us.

British Columbians who are deaf and hard of hearing have always had access to HealthLinkBC 8-1-1 through a Teletypewriter (TTY) relay service by dialing 7-1-1. A TTY relay service call allows a person with a hearing or speech disability to reach a relay operator to facilitate a call with 8-1-1.

When you call 8-1-1 you will be connected with a health service navigator. They can provide you with health information, help you navigate the health care system and find health services across the province, or connect you with a registered nurse, registered dietitian, qualified exercise professional, or pharmacist. Our navigators are available any time of the day or night, every day of the year.

Learn more about Navigation Services at HealthLink BC.

Registered nurses at HealthLink BC can help you with non-emergency health concerns, to discuss symptoms and procedures, and to recommend whether you should see a health care provider in person. At any time of the day or night, every day of the year, you can call 8-1-1 to ask a registered nurse your health questions.

Learn more about Nursing Services at HealthLink BC.

Registered dietitians at HealthLink BC can answer your healthy eating and nutrition questions. They also provide specialized services for pediatric, oncology, and allergy nutrition. To speak with a registered dietitian, call 8-1-1 from 9am to 5pm Pacific Time Monday to Friday, or you can Email a HealthLinkBC Dietitian.

Our dietitians from the Pediatric Nutrition Service work together with qualified exercise professionals to provide the HealthLink BC Eating and Activity Program for Kids. For more information about the program, call 8-1-1 and ask for the HealthLink BC Eating and Activity Program for Kids.

Learn more about Dietitian Services at HealthLink BC.

Qualified exercise professionals at HealthLink BC can answer your physical activity and exercise questions. Qualified exercise professionals can prescribe physical activity and provide exercise advice or guidance to individuals of all ages and abilities. They also provide specialized services for pediatric and bariatric. To speak with a qualified exercise professional, call 8-1-1 Monday to Friday from 9am to 5pm Pacific Time, or you can Email Physical Activity Services.

Our qualified exercise professionals work together with registered dietitians to provide the HealthLink BC Eating and Activity Program for Kids. For more information about the program, call 8-1-1 and ask for the HealthLink BC Eating and Activity Program for Kids.

Learn more about Physical Activity Services at HealthLink BC.

You can call 8-1-1 to talk to a pharmacist about your medication questions. Our pharmacists are on call at 8-1-1 when your community pharmacist may be unavailable—every night from 5pm to 9am Pacific Time.

Learn more about Pharmacist Services at HealthLink BC.

8-1-1 provides translation services on request in more than 130 languages. After dialing 8-1-1, you will be connected with an English speaking health service navigator. To get service in another language, simply state the language you are looking for (example say “Punjabi”), and an interpreter will join the call.

To find resources that have been translated into Chinese, Farsi, French, Korean, Punjabi, Spanish, or Vietnamese, visit Translated Resources.

Last Updated: November 2017

We appreciate your feedback. Comments submitted through the form below can help us fix errors in page content, get rid of interface bugs, and update the HealthLinkBC website to better suit the needs of the people who use it.

To submit feedback about this web page, please enter your comments, suggestions, compliments or questions in the form below. To submit general feedback about the HealthLink BC website, please click on the General Feedback tab.

To submit general feedback about the HealthLink BC website, please enter your comments, suggestions, compliments or questions in the form below. To submit feedback about a specific web page, please click on the About This Page tab.

Please note that we are unable to provide general health information or advice about symptoms by email. For general health information or symptom advice, please call us at 8-1-1 any time of the day or night.

For questions about food and nutrition, please click on Email a HealthLinkBC Dietitian.

To share this link, enter the information below and click on the "submit" button.

Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are mandatory.

There are many ways you can add physical activity to your healthy lifestyle, no matter your age or activity level. Ask us your physical activity question. Physical activity related questions will be answered by one of HealthLink BC’s qualified exercise professionals.

To submit your question about physical activity, please complete the form below.

For questions not related to physical activity, please use the General Feedback tab.

 indicates required fields

If you or someone in your care has chest pains, difficulty breathing, or severe bleeding, it could be a life-threatening emergency. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately.

If you are concerned about a possible poisoning or exposure to a toxic substance, call Poison Control now at 1-800-567-8911.

Thanks to our partners and endorsers:

Call 8-1-1 toll-free in B.C., or for the deaf and hard of hearing, call 7-1-1 (TTY). For VRS, visit Video Relay Services to sign up and give them the number 604-215-5101 to call us.

You can speak with a health service navigator, who can also connect you with a:

Translation services are available in more than 130 languages.

