F T I

On September 30th, Orange Shirt Day commemorates the residential school experience and witness' and honours the healing journeys of the survivors and their families. Wearing orange honours survivors and generational survivors and recognizes an ongoing commitment to reconciliation.

Orange Shirt Day began as a grassroots effort in 2013 to raise awareness of residential schools in a campaign commonly referred to as “Orange Shirt Day – Every Child Matters.” The orange shirt originates from the story of Phyllis (Jack) Webstad. At six years old, Phyllis’ grandmother purchased a shiny orange shirt for Phyllis to wear to her first day of school. This shirt, symbolizing Phyllis’ bright and excited feelings, was taken away upon arrival at the St. Joseph Mission (SJM) residential school in Williams Lake, BC. The date, September 30th, was chosen because it is the time of year in which children were taken from their homes to residential schools and because it is an opportunity to set the stage for anti-racism and anti-bullying policies and action for the coming year.

Orange Shirt Day is a legacy of the St. Joseph Mission Residential School Commemoration Project and Reunion events that took place in Williams Lake, BC in May 2013. These events brought together former students and their families, and now September 30 is an opportunity to meaningfully raise awareness and come together in the spirit of reconciliation and hope for generations of children to come.

For the first year ever, September 30th, 2021 was been designated a Canadian statutory holiday called: National Day for Truth and Reconciliation. A series of events took place on SFU campus' throughout the week to participate in including; an Orange Shirt Art Table, Fire Pits for Bannock S'mores, Information about Orange Shirt Day, Drumming, and Visiting with Students, ISC Staff, Counsellors & Elders, led by the ISC and FNSA (now FNMISA).

Orange Shirt Day - Every Child Matters

SFU Library - Orange Shirt Day webpage

SFU Reconciliation – Walk this Path with Us

BC Teachers Federation:  Project of Heart, Illuminating the History of Indian Residential Schools in BC

Manitoba Teachers Society - Lesson Plans and Resources for Orange Shirt Day

Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada

United Nations Declaration on the rights of Indigenous Peoples

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


