F T I

Introduce yourself. Personally, or your organization.
My name is Lily and I am a part of a wonderful Talent Acquisition team that recruits for retail branch positions for TD locations across the Lower Mainland, BC. I am passionate about helping people find meaningful employment and long term careers at TD, and contributing in building a diverse workforce that fosters an inclusive environment.

How does your organization demonstrate commitment to supporting Indigenous communities and promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace?
TD is committed to supporting Indigenous communities and we know more work is needed on our part on the journey towards Truth and Reconciliation. We support initiatives that promote early learning, enhance financial education, support equitable health outcomes and celebrate Indigenous culture. Through the TD Ready Commitment, we’re applying our business, people, and philanthropy toward helping open doors for a more inclusive tomorrow for all. For example, every June we honour the culture and history of Indigenous Peoples. Through colleague-focused events in the Bank and various community initiatives supported by the TD Ready Commitment like Luminato and the SOCAN Foundation, we're helping bring people together to celebrate Indigenous Peoples' arts and culture. Additionally, since 2013 we’ve supported Frontier College and their Summer Literacy Youth Camps. Frontier College collaborates with 250 Indigenous communities, coast-to-coast, to help build children’s love of reading and improve educational outcomes for Indigenous youth. To date, the program has reached 54,000 children and distributed over 225,000 books. We’re also working with various TD Friends of the Environment advisory boards to help increase funding for environmental projects with Indigenous communities. At TD, diversity and inclusion are central to fostering a culture of care. In keeping with the focus of the TD Ready Commitment, we aspire to create an environment where all colleagues have an opportunity to fulfill their potential and to participate in meaningful ways. We know our colleagues can only do their best work when they feel encouraged to be themselves.

Please describe what opportunities or positions that you have for Indigenous students.
We are always looking to hire part-time Customer Experience Associates at TD and it is great for students as the part-time hours are flexible around school schedules. This position is a key role as it is the heart of our frontline and is accountable to deliver exceptional customer experiences to our clients. It's a great way to start your career in banking as this role will lead to many other growth opportunities where you can build a long-lasting and meaningful career at TD, depending on where your interests and passion take you.

Are there specific skills, qualifications, or academic backgrounds that you are seeking in potential Indigenous candidates?
We are looking for candidates with customer service skills who have a passion for helping others by delivering exceptional client service. If a student has not held a previous customer service job that is okay, as we also consider transferrable skills from volunteer experience, internships and co-ops.

Please outline any mentorship, training, or professional development programs that your organization offers to help Indigenous employees thrive.
TD offers a specialized onboarding program for new hires from Indigenous communities. It connects them with a 1:1 mentor and introduces them to the internal Indigenous colleagues Employee Resource Group to build a sense of community. It teaches the new hire about the organization and about career development & growth opportunities at TD. The program is 9 months and it is optional.

Is there anything exciting that you would like our students to know?

Together with AFOA Canada, a not-for-profit led by Indigenous Peoples, TD has worked to build a scholarship for Indigenous Peoples. Through it, 25 scholarships are available to be awarded annually, worth up to $60K over 4 years. For more info visit - https://www.td.com/ca/en/personal-banking/solutions/student-advice/indigenous-student-scholarships-grants-and-bursaries

Connect with Lily To

Email: Lily.To@td.com
LinkedIn: @lilyto2
Website: jobs.td.com/en-CA/

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


