F T I

Introduce your organization.
The First Nations Health Authority works to reform the way health care is delivered to BC First Nations through direct services and collaboration with provincial partners. The First Nations Health Authority is governed by and serves BC First Nations individuals and communities.

How does your organization demonstrate commitment to supporting Indigenous communities and promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace?
The FNHA is the health and wellness partner to over 200 diverse First Nations communities and citizens across BC. We are also a champion of culturally safe practices throughout the broader health care system. Taking a leadership role, the FNHA actively works with its health partners to embed cultural safety and humility into health service delivery and improve health outcomes for First Nations people. Our talented teams value respect and foster lateral kindness in their working relationships. Our holistic approach to wellness, based on First Nations teachings, is incorporated into all aspects of our work culture. We lead in practice with our culture. We support our family members to be leaders in wellness by developing a wellness plan as part of their performance partnership and goal-setting. Our orientation program is a unique cultural experience, complemented by other cultural practices and supports that are embedded in our day-to-day work and inform our work culture.

Please briefly describe what opportunities or positions that you have for Indigenous students.
We have two programs for First Nations, Inuit and Métis peoples.

Raising the Canoe, FNHA’s First Nations Student Program: provides First Nations students exposure to health care while supporting their personal and professional growth. We aim to match a student’s education, skills career interests, and goals with available opportunities. Full-time term roles: January to April, May to August and September to December.

Firekeepers, FNHA’s First Nations New Grad Program: provides entry-level (non-clinical) professional developmental positions. Working under close guidance from assigned mentors, this individual will be accountable for growing and strengthening their leadership skills and general understanding of the First Nations Health Authority, and other major functional areas, through a detailed one-year development plan including shadowing, hands-on learning, and more. Term roles start September and May of each year.

We maintain an open door for applications throughout the year for both programs.

Are there specific skills, qualifications, or academic backgrounds that you are seeking in potential Indigenous candidates?
We hire individuals from a wide variety of backgrounds, including health care, IT, project management, human resources, communications, strategic policy and many more.

Please outline any mentorship, training, or professional development programs that your organization offers to help Indigenous employees thrive.
Our orientation program is a unique cultural experience, complemented by other cultural practices and supports that are embedded in our day-to-day work that help inform our work culture. These include opening the work week with a Monday morning prayer and singing the Coast Salish anthem, mindful Mondays with and knowledge keeper, Tsow-Tun-Le-Lum Society provides services to all FNHA employees, smudging ceremonies, our annual Family Gathering and support through partnerships with First Nations cultural societies. At the FNHA, employees and direct supervisors co-create goals, aligning personal strengths to department and organizational goals through our performance partnerships. This is used instead of an assessment model. Performance Partnerships are an opportunity for all staff to set a learning plan and wellness plan for the year ahead. This helps your supervisor and team support your growth and wellbeing throughout the year. Additional professional development:• First Nations Career Partner to support First Nations employees• LinkedIn Learning account• San’yas Indigenous Cultural Safety Training Program• Respect in the workplace• Cultural Safety & Humility community of practice

Does your organization contribute to the broader Indigenous community through partnerships, initiatives, or philanthropy?
The FNHA supports BC First Nations individuals, families and communities to achieve and enjoy the highest level of health and wellness by: working with them on their health and wellness journeys; honouring traditions and cultures; and championing First Nations health and wellness within the FNHA organization and with all of our partners. We support the Indigenous community in everything we do including, but not limited to, health and wellness promotion and awareness, our health benefits program, primary and virtual care services and various community grant programs.

Is there anything exciting that you would like our students to know?
Great opportunity to have exposure to First Nations health care across the province, and work in a First Nations organization.

Connect with our Team

Email: FirstNationsCareers@fnha.ca
Website: www.fnha.ca

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


