F T I

Introduce yourself. Personally or your organization.

We (ICBC) are a provincial Crown corporation that provide services across the province of British Columbia (BC) that includes auto insurance, driver licensing, claims, and vehicle registration. We provide these services to all Indigenous and non-Indigenous residents of BC and recognizes the need to strengthen relationships with customers, business partners, and Indigenous communities. 

How does your organization demonstrate commitment to supporting Indigenous communities and promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace?

We have a Special Program designation from the BC Human Rights Commissioner, allowing us to preferentially target and hire self-identified Indigenous people. Our goal with this program is to achieve greater employee representation of Indigenous peoples. Through initiatives for customers and employees, we are actively learning, growing, and addressing the disadvantages faced by Indigenous people to better the province of BC and establish a more inclusive and diverse workplace.

Please briefly describe what opportunities or positions that you have for Indigenous students.

We have created specific Indigenous roles within the organization and committed to hiring Indigenous talent within all levels of the organization. We have an open Indigenous Talent Community posting to collect applications from Indigenous people who we then speak with and endeavour to match them to vacancies throughout the company. 

As we strive to be an employer of choice, we offer a flexible work environment for most positions, competitive benefits package, career opportunities and a supportive and collaborative work environment. 

We also offer co-op opportunities in various business areas such as Finance, Human Resources, IT, Marketing, Administration and Insurance.

Are there specific skills, qualifications, or academic backgrounds that you are seeking in potential Indigenous candidates?

We are seeking diverse skills, qualifications and academic backgrounds to fill a variety of diverse roles.

Please outline any mentorship, training, or professional development programs that your organization offers to help Indigenous employees thrive.

We offer practicum opportunities to Indigenous students where they can practice their existing skills and learn about specific roles while expanding their understanding of ICBC. We also have an Indigenous Employee Resource Group which regularly meets, connects, and plans inclusive activities. 

Connect with Linda Epp

Linda Epp an Indigenous Talent Sourcing Specialist with the Talent Aquisition Services/Human Resource Department. Linda is a member of the Sechelt Nation and officially joined ICBC on April 29, 2024.

Email: linda.epp@icbc.com
Phone Number: 604-968-3092
Website: www.icbc.com

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


