I 

A counselling group for students experiencing anxiety and stress

This group is open to all genders, sexual orientations, and worldviews and is intended to support students who are experiencing stress, anxiety and/or low mood. It is a great fit for undergrad and graduate level students. The intention is to provide a space for sharing and personal growth. Group norms will be established in support of creating this space. 

Meditation, psychoeducation, movement, and discussion of coping skills are offered through a mindfulness lens. 

No previous experience is required. This is an open group (participants can join at any time).

This open group (participants can join at any time) is best experienced through attendance at all 7 sessions. Also impactful if attending only one. 

To register, email Beth (btriano@sfu.ca) with your name and email. You can also email her if you have any questions about the group.

Thursdays | 2:00pm - 3:30pm

Sessions will be held via Zoom.

Check out Upcoming Session for any updated times or changes to the sessions.

Registered Clinical Counsellor 
btriano@sfu.ca

Beth is a Registered Clinical Counsellor working within a client centered, intersectionality framework. She appreciates that students are busy, often overwhelmed and lead lives outside the confines of being a student. Beth’s life experience as a yoga and meditation instructor, group facilitator and graduate student inform her in her counselling work. She strives to support the development of insight, strategies and tools to assist students in reaching their counselling and broader life goals. Beth is a certified EMDR therapist with experience in supporting clients through issues related to trauma history, self-esteem, stress, anxiety and low mood.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


