I 

While self-care can help with reducing the effects of stress, horticulture therapy (garden therapy) activities offer a fun and comforting way to achieve a similar outcome. 

Have you ever had a day where nothing seemed like it could go right? Sometimes the stresses of daily life seem too much to handle. While self-care can help with reducing the effects of stress, horticulture therapy (garden therapy) activities offer a fun and comforting way to achieve a similar outcome.

Horticulture therapy involves the interaction with plants to aid in strengthening the body and mind. Although touching and feeling plants has been proven to boost moods and reduce stress, the full effects of horticulture therapy are best handled with the help of a professional therapist. You can pair the act of planting, maintaining, and harvesting with therapy concepts that cultivate personal growth and resiliency.


location_on
 Sessions will take place in Group Room 3 (MBC0307) & Embark Learning Garden – Close to Science Rd.

May/June – Planting 3-4 sessions

July/August – Maintenance of plants 

Learn to check soil temperature, water plants, fertilize, prune dried or dead leaves, provide protection from the elements and pests if necessary.


location_on
 Sessions will take place in the Embark Learning Garden – Close to Science Rd.

September/October – Harvest


location_on
 Sessions will take place in the Embark Learning Garden – Close to Science Rd.

To register, email the facilitator, Tricia-Kay Williams, at triciaw@sfu.ca.

Thursdays | 2:30pm to 4:00pm

Embark Learning Gardens & HCS Group Room 3 

Tricia-Kay Williams has a BA degree in Psychology from the York University in Toronto O.N. and an MA degree in Counselling Psychology at the Adler University in Vancouver B.C. Tricia has extensive experience counselling individuals and families and is skilled in treating: Trauma, Anxiety, Transitional/Career and Relational issues. She is also an active community and social services professional who worked for some years as a Residential Youth Worker. Tricia is an advocate for anti-racism that affects BIPOC individuals and consults with organizations to foster a more anti-racist approach.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


