F I

Contact the SVSPO: 778.782.7233 | sv-support@sfu.ca

The Sexual Violence Support & Prevention Office works closely with SFU’s Health & Counselling Services to offer specialized counselling supports for SFU and FIC students who have been impacted by sexual violence and intimate partner violence.

SFU and FIC students who have experienced sexual violence or intimate partner violence may access free, confidential, time-limited support from a counsellor who specializes in sexual violence and other forms of trauma.

To access specialized personal counselling, please connect with an SVSPO Case Manager or contact Health and Counselling Services directly.

An 8-week gender inclusive, closed, weekly support group focusing on self-care, regulation and support through artistic / body expression and psychoeducation. For individuals who have had exposure or experience with person violence, family violence, intimate partner violence, or sexual assault. This could be a recent or historical event.

This group is intended for individuals who could benefit from connecting with others and learning new tools for regulation and self-care.

Learn more

Nurturing Resilience

An open weekly support group for individuals of any gender identities who have experienced any form of sexual violence.

Participants may expect to learn about trauma and recovery, coping skills, and emotion regulation. A caring, compassionate and safe space will be held and created for the weekly sessions and discussions. 

Members will also have an opportunity to build connections with others and gain support from a counsellor. Members will be welcomed each week and safety in the group will be established and prioritized. Participation can be helpful and lead to positive change, however, members will not be pressured to share personal experiences. All levels of participation will be respected. 

Advanced sign up required.  


Learn more

Shereen شيرين Khan, PhD, RCC is a settler from South Asian and Middle Eastern descent, having lived internationally before making the beautiful unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh nations a place to call home. She is passionate about ending the stigma of mental health illness, trauma and sexualized violence. She is drawn to multicultural, anti-oppressive and trauma-informed practices as she acknowledges that human beings are wired for connection and we all have a right to feel good in our bodies. Both connection and bodily experiences cannot be framed without healthy boundaries and reexamination and shift of our cultural norms around sexual harm being an unavoidable part of life for Women, IBIPOC, Trans, Non-Binary and LGBTQ2 communities.
She utilizes strengths based, solution-focused therapy model to help clients to courageously achieve wellness. She works with evidence approaches such as CBT, DBT, and EMDR. She is also drawn to creative arts, movement and psychodrama that weaves its way into the group and individual therapies. She is a firm believer in the potential of all individuals to heal, have authentic relationship connections, and live fulfilling lives.

West Mall Centre (WMC) 1301
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


