 I L

Co-operative Education is an educational model that formally integrates academic experience with paid employment. The standard co-op program consists of academic study alternating with work experience in degree-relevant fields.

1

Think about how co-op can benefit you and where it fits within your post-secondary experience by reviewing our roadmap.

Jump to section

2

Contact your co-op program office directly or meet with a co-op advisor for one-on-one support. Co-op staff are available in-person or virtually.

Jump to section

3

Know the application fees, tuition, deadlines and program-specific requirements. Be familiar with the process for applying to co-op, and next steps from your program.

Jump to section

4

Gain insight into what happens after applying, and what to expect while participating in the program. Find tips for planning your timeline to ensure you get the most from co-op experiences.

Jump to section

Co-op Programs offer info sessions in the first month of every term. Hear from senior students about their Co-op journey, learn about career options, and know what to expect when joining the program.

EXPLORE AND RSVP

Co-op staff are available for you to visit in-person or virtually. Get in contact with your co-op program office directly or meet with a co-op advisor for one-on-one support.

GET SUPPORT

diversity_1

Co-op creates professional relationships with real industry connections. Along with experience, you’ll leave work terms with potential references, new LinkedIn connections, and in some cases, an offer for full-time employment upon graduation.

 search_check

Co-op is more than simply a job-placement program—it is an educational experience that facilitates job placement with purpose. The program helps you prepare your resume, cover letter, and interview skills to ensure you put your best foot forward.

 fork_right

Co-op gives you the tools and experiences that allow you to reflect on your career and pivot if necessary. This is why we recommend that students complete work terms with at least two seperate employers, adding up to three full terms of work experience.

savings

Co-op opportunities are different from "internships" in that they offer real work experiences with actual compensation. They can be a great way to take a break from your studies for one or two terms to earn an income, and apply your knowledge from your degree program.

 rocket_launch

Co-op creates a unique, supportive environment where you are only competing with other co-op students for job placements, as opposed to the broader job market. Employers provide mentorship and training to foster learning outcomes during work terms.

 local_library

Co-op smooths the transition from the academic world to the working world, by allowing you to apply your classroom knowledge to the workplace. Students also gain new perspectives from their work term when returning to the classroom, further contextualizing studies.

Start your application

Get advice and support

Review what happens next

Contact a Co-op Program office

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


