I 

This Canvas Course and seminar aims to help understand different types of climate change distress and offer some strategies to cope.

Please note: This workshop is not in session during Summer 2023. Please email shona_hcs@sfu.ca if you would like to arrange a seminar for students.

The climate is changing, and it can feel overwhelming at times. Are you anxious about what you're seeing and experiencing, or what others are witnessing and living through? This seminar aims to offer some strategies and coping skills, and a better understanding about what climate change anxiety and grief is.

This seminar can be accessed in person for SFU students, and online through Zoom for all others. There will be a chance to discuss the topics covered in the seminar with Health and Counselling colleagues during the seminar through the zoom chat, whether in person or online. People are encouraged to change their name on Zoom to protect their privacy. 

To register, click on the Canvas links where more information about room and Zoom access will be posted. There will also be additional resources available to download closer to the time. People who register for the seminar will not be able to see the names of others who are registered. 

Optional participation in research project: This seminar is also part of a research study on understanding different interventions that people with different levels of climate change distress find helpful, and has ethical approval. More information is in the File in Canvas. The presenter will not know who has chosen to participate in the research, but there is a 1/50 chance to win $100 for those who choose to participate (this is through Kiffer Card at SFU Health Sciences).  

- - - - -

Contact Shona at shona_hcs@sfu.ca if you would like a non-SFU family or friend to access this seminar. Please obtain the other person’s permission first and include their email to enroll on the Canvas page.

In-person and on Zoom/LiveChat

Read about the rest of our staff 

Registered Clinical Counsellor and Psychologist

Shona is a Registered Clinical Counsellor and Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.. She is dual citizen who immigrated to Canada when she was 9 years old, previously living in South Africa, Thailand and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT approach and is a specialist in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders. She uses a strength-based solution-focused model, working collaboratively to help people understand their difficulties and learn different strategies to interact with them. She is humbly aware of her white privilege and is passionate with facilitating people to reach their full potential within a caring and empowering environment.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


