I 

Learn about the impact of trauma and how it may affect yourself or someone you know.

This is an in person and online seminar is for those who are struggling after experiencing trauma and those who care about someone who is struggling after experiencing trauma.

This seminar aims to help people learn about different types of trauma and how these can affect people. It aims to help people understand common symptoms, and to help equip people with some basic self-help strategies and get information about where to access additional support. 

You are also welcome to utilize the Canvas course, as seminar attendance is helpful but not required.

Join the canvas course

Seminar information

The Canvas course contains more information about seminar room location and zoom access.

On the day of the seminar, join the Zoom link 5 to 10 minutes before start, or attend in person. Please arrive on time.

There will also be additional resources available to download closer to the seminar. Note: People who register for the seminar will not be able to see the names of others who are registered. 

 

In-person at Surrey Campus and on Zoom

Seminar room location will be provided in the Canvas course.

You can also choose to utilize the Canvas course at any time, as the seminar is recommended but not required.

Read about the rest of our staff 

Registered Psychologist #2558

Shona is a Registered Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.. She is dual citizen who immigrated to Canada when she was 9 years old, previously living in South Africa, Thailand and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT approach and is a specialist in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders. She uses a strength-based solution-focused model, working collaboratively to help people understand their difficulties and learn different strategies to interact with them. She is humbly aware of her white privilege and is passionate with facilitating people to reach their full potential within a caring and empowering environment.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


