I 

Some questions are best answered by a peer. Health Peers are trained Health & Counselling volunteers available to answer questions, offer resources, and share important health-related information to students across campus.

The Health Peers work with the Health Promotion team at Health & Counselling to support student health and well-being on campus through pop-up events, workshops, and outreaches.

They are trained to table and host workshops and share health information through a health equity lens on topics like:

Many Health Peers are from Health Sciences, and are interested in pursuing health-related careers, so through a combination of their education and training they facilitate dialogue and communicate important health information to students across the university. 

arrow_right_alt Stop by the Health Peers pop-up events for tips, resources, and free giveaways. Have questions or want to connect? Email health_promo@sfu.ca.

 headphones Thriving with the Health Peers is a podcast series run by the Health Peers in 2021. LISTEN NOW

 videocam Watch "The Sex Talk Your Parents Never Gave You" which busts seven myths and reduces stigma around menstruation. WATCH NOW

 cooking Cook along with the Health Peers as they offer simple recipe and meal ideas. Choose from chana masala, banana oatmeal cookies, or kale chips. Find more

 mic Discover ways to care of your own well-being with this IGTV interview series: Episode 1: Social Connection, Episode 2: Physical Health, Episode 3: Awareness, Episode 4: Contribution, Episode 5: Emotional Health

Find blog articles written by Health Peers on relevant topics like: Online Dating and Keeping Safe or How to Build a Routine: Choose Your Strategy.

Want to read more?

View now


Are you interested in becoming a Health Peer?

Learn more about SFU Peer Programs

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


