I 

MBSR is for individuals experiencing stress, including stress that is a result of chronic physical and psychological conditions.

MBSR is for individuals experiencing stress, including stress that is a result of chronic physical and psychological conditions.

This 8-week psycho-educational group program helps develop capacity for greater calm and teaches practical skills to manage stress. Program activities include discussion, experiential exercises, meditation, mindful movement and home practices. Options to modify movements and poses will be provided in order to meet participants needs.

Please contact Sarah Parkes at sacomin@sfu.ca if you are interested in participating. A meeting with Sarah is required before registering for the group. She will answer your questions and help you determine if the group is right for you. 

Email Sarah to register

Wednesdays | 9:30am - 11:50am 
Sessions will be held via Zoom.

Email Sarah to register

Registered Clinical Counsellor 
sacomin@sfu.ca

Sarah is a Registered Clinical Counsellor with a MA degree in Counselling Psychology from Simon Fraser University. Sarah is committed to providing her clients with a collaborative, safe and nurturing space that honors their unique experiences, culture, histories, and identity. Sarah is passionate about helping her clients recognize their personal strengths, cultivate a more compassionate relationship with themselves, and develop key skills and strategies that will help them address their concerns and move towards their unique personal goals.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


