Depression is considered to be a disorder of mood.  Individuals who are depressed, describe low mood that has persisted for longer than two weeks.  In mild forms of depression, individuals may not feel bad all day but still describe a dismal outlook and a sense of gloom. Their mood may lift with a positive experience, but fall again with even a minor disappointment.  In severe depression, a low mood will persist throughout the day, failing to lift even when pleasant things occur.  The low mood may fluctuate during the day such that it may be worse in the morning and relatively better in the afternoon. This is called ‘diurnal variation,’ which often accompanies a more severe type of depression.

Coping with Depression: This workbook is designed to provide you with some information about depression and suggested strategies for how you can manage your mood.  It is organised into modules that are designed to be worked through in sequence.  Although it is not necessary that you complete one module before going on to the next, this is recommended. Each module includes information, worksheets, and suggested exercises or activities.

This module looks at the symptoms of depression, what causes depression, and provides information about psychotherapy for depression.

This module describes how to increase activity levels, particularly fun activities

This module describes automatic thoughts and explores how thoughts influence feelings.

This module explores how you can use a thought diary to monitor the unhelpful thoughts that can lead to how you feel about a particular situation.

This module describes a number of common unhelpful thinking styles that can lead to negative emotions.

Module 6 explores how you can examine and challenge unhelpful thoughts by expanding the thought diary described in Module 4.

This module describes how you can summarise how you have challenged unhelpful thoughts by producing a balanced thought.

Core beliefs are often at the root of unhelpful thoughts that are particularly difficult to change. This module looks at core beliefs and how to change them.

This final module describes how to maintain gains and continue the progress that has been made throughout the previous modules.

Click the link above to download all modules in this workbook at once, as a zip file.

What is Depression

What Causes Depression

Psychotherapy for Depression

Vicious Cycle of Depression

Behavioural Activation: Fun and Achievement

Fun Activities Catalogue

Improving How You Feel

Thinking and Feeling

Analysing Your Thinking

Changing Your Thinking

Unhelpful Thinking Styles (Overview)

What Are Core Beliefs?

Problem Solving

Staying Healthy

Grief and Bereavement

Download all information sheets (zip file)

Symptoms of Depression

Behavioural Activation

My Behavioural Antidepressants

Weekly Activity Schedule

Weekly Goals Record

Making the Connection (between thoughts and feelings)

Thought Diary 1 (ABC worksheet, excludes unhelpful thinking styles)

Thought Diary 2 (ABCD worksheet, includes unhelpful thinking styles)

Thought Diary 3  (Complete ABCDE: balanced thought)

Thought Diary (Tri-fold)
This information sheet provides a brief overview of unhelpful thinking styles. For information sheets providing details on individual unhelpful thinking styles, refer to the Unhelpful Thinking Styles section in resources for clinicians.

Core Beliefs Worksheet

Healthy Me

Goal Setting (End of Therapy)

Download all worksheets (zip file)


                                Last Updated:
                                
                                    28/10/2019



Phone: (08) 9227 4399
Fax: (08) 9328 5911
Email: Visit the Contact us page


Centre for Clinical Interventions
223 James Street
Northbridge, WA 6003
Australia

Centre for Clinical Interventions is brought to you by the Department of Health, Western Australia

 

Copyright 2023; All contents copyright Government of Western Australia

