If there is an urgent safety concern, please call 9-1-1 or go to emergency at your nearest hospital.

Suicide hotline: 1-800-784-2433

Call BC Crisis Line: 604-310-6789

Kids Help Phone: 1-800-668-6868

KUU-US Crisis Support Line (BC Wide Indigenous Toll Free Crisis and Support Line): 1-800-588-8717


      Suicide attempt follow-up, education & research (S.A.F.E.R.) is a free, time-limited counselling service that provides counselling for individuals aged 19 and over who have made a suicide attempt, are currently suicidal, or have suicidal ideation.
    

Emergency contacts

If you or someone you know needs help, call one of these numbers:

SAFER also offers support and education for people who are concerned about the risk of suicide in a significant other or bereaved by a suicide death, training, education, and professional consultation in the areas of suicide prevention, intervention, and postvention.

Call the Access and Assessment Centre (AAC) at (604) 675-3700 to connect with S.A.F.E.R. if you are feeling suicidal, you are concerned about someone who is suicidal or you are experiencing suicide bereavement.

Some warning signs you might notice:

Counselling may help learn new ways to cope with difficult times and painful feelings. S.A.F.E.R. can help to:

S.A.F.E.R. offers up to three appointments with a counsellor to a person concerned about someone who is suicidal. During these sessions you can:

Discuss ways to look after yourself.

S.A.F.E.R. offers individual counselling to individuals who have lost someone to suicide. We also offer counsellor-led groups for those ready to work on their grief with others.

 

 

Crisis Centre BC

Find programs and services in your community.

S.A.F.E.R. counsellors offer educational workshops in Suicide Intervention and Suicide Bereavement for mental health workers and residents of the City of Vancouver. For more information, call the Clinical Educator at (604) 675-3710.


      The VCH web team reviews website suggestions weekly for common themes. While we won't provide direct responses, your feedback is valuable.For non-website-related questions or feedback, please contact us. Health-related queries should be directed to your primary care provider or HealthLinkBC at 8-11.Protecting your privacy is a priority. Avoid including names or identifying details. Learn more on our Privacy and Terms of Use page.
    


        Thank you for pointing out what we can do better in the future.
      


      Vancouver Coastal Health is committed to delivering exceptional care to 1.25 million people, including the First Nations, Métis and Inuit, within the traditional territories of the Heiltsuk, Kitasoo-Xai’xais, Lil’wat, Musqueam, N’Quatqua, Nuxalk, Samahquam, shíshálh, Skatin, Squamish, Tla’amin, Tsleil-Waututh, Wuikinuxv, and Xa’xtsa.
    

Copyright © 2024 Vancouver Coastal Health

