I 

Connect with your body, relax your mind, and discover tools for bringing more calm and ease into your life. 

Mindfulness Meditation is a free drop-in class open to SFU students, faculty, and staff. Monday sessions are geared towards self-compassion, with Wednesday and Friday sessions being a regular mindfulness practices. 

Each session includes mindfulness practices, information on habits of mind, and the opportunity for a brief discussion. 

No previous experience is necessary.

Each session includes mindfulness practice, information on habits of mind, and the opportunity for a brief discussion about the practice. Mondays' sessions are focused on self-compassion.

For information or questions regarding this program, you can contact Beth Triano at btriano@sfu.ca or Sarah Parkes at sacomin@sfu.ca.

Mondays 12:30 to 1:00pm | Self-Compassion | Zoom 

Wednesdays 12:30 to 1:00pm | Mindfulness | Zoom 

warning Drop-ins are not in session during reading week or stat holidays. 

The sessions are drop ins - no registration required.

A variety of HCS staffers facilitate these drop-in sessions, please email Beth Triano at btriano@sfu.ca or Sarah Parkes at sacomin@sfu.ca for more information.

Zoom

Meeting ID: 329 722 833

Password: 123456

Click to join the zoom meeting

Join the Zoom two to five minutes before the session starts, and ensure your microphone remains muted once you have successfully joined the meeting. Sessions begin promptly at 12:30pm.

Zoom

Meeting ID: 329 722 833

Password: 123456

Click to join the zoom meeting

Join the Zoom two to five minutes before the session starts, and ensure your microphone remains muted once you have successfully joined the meeting. Sessions begin promptly at 12:30pm.

warning Drop-ins are not in session during stat holidays. 

Read about the rest of our staff 

Registered Clinical Counsellor 
btriano@sfu.ca

Beth is a Registered Clinical Counsellor working within a client centered, intersectionality framework. She appreciates that students are busy, often overwhelmed and lead lives outside the confines of being a student. Beth’s life experience as a yoga and meditation instructor, group facilitator and graduate student inform her in her counselling work. She strives to support the development of insight, strategies and tools to assist students in reaching their counselling and broader life goals. Beth is a certified EMDR therapist with experience in supporting clients through issues related to trauma history, self-esteem, stress, anxiety and low mood.

Registered Clinical Counsellor 
sacomin@sfu.ca

Sarah is a Registered Clinical Counsellor with a MA degree in Counselling Psychology from Simon Fraser University. Sarah is committed to providing her clients with a collaborative, safe and nurturing space that honors their unique experiences, culture, histories, and identity. Sarah is passionate about helping her clients recognize their personal strengths, cultivate a more compassionate relationship with themselves, and develop key skills and strategies that will help them address their concerns and move towards their unique personal goals.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


