F T I

Student life can be stressful and overwhelming, but you don't have to face it alone. There are supports available to you from the Indigenous Student Centre and SFU, to help you through your emotional, physical, spiritual and intellectual health journey.

Everyone has a different approach for leading a healthy lifestyle, including their physical, mental, spiritual and emotional health. At the ISC we host a variety of wholistic wellness programs in order to support you in the best way you see fit. Checkout our Calender of Events to learn more about upcoming programs. Have a suggestion about a type of program you would like to see at the ISC? Please join us for an ISC x FNMISA Townhall or email iscadmin@sfu.ca.

Sign up for the Wellness Program to join our online community and in-person programs.

Get connected with one of our Indigenous Clinical Counsellors for a one-on-one appointment or workshop.

Attend an Elders Program Drop-in for a casual conversation and knowledge sharing opportunity.

Join a Cultural Connections workshop to learn new skills and visit with community.

SFU Health and Counselling Services has a Black Counsellor, Tricia Kay Williams, available for drop-ins (booking needed in advance). For more information about how to access Black Mental Health supports and other BIPOC-specific supports, please visit the HCS Black Student Supports page. 

Connect with an ISC counsellor by booking online OR Contact Health and Counselling services  at 778-782-4615, hcs_cm@sfu.ca or visit MBC 0101 to book an appointment with a doctor, nurse or counsellor.

 


Bouncing forward: Online Resilience Course
Group counselling
Online self-help resources



The MindShift Application is an iOS and Android app designed to help individuals ease their anxiety through tools aimed at relaxing the mind and developing more effective ways of thinking. This app is free of charge and available for download through the App Store and Google Play. 

Additional support options and counselling services are available at SFU Health and Counselling Services.

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


