I 

A practical and informative seminar for anyone interested in learning more about understanding and coping with anxiety and depression.

This is a Canvas Course and 2-hour practical and informative seminar for anyone interested in learning more about anxiety and depression. You can attend the seminar in-person at Burnaby Campus or by Zoom with the option of joining and interacting online through LiveChat.

On Canvas, you will also have access to a copy of the seminar slides and helpful resources. These resources are available until the end of term, so feel free to print the ones you are interested in keeping. Additionally, you can share your feedback about the event in the "Quizzes" section.

The Canvas course contains more information about seminar room location and zoom access.

On the day of the seminar, join the Zoom link 5 to 10 minutes before start, or attend in person. Please arrive on time.

You are also welcome to utilize the Canvas course, as seminar attendance is helpful but not required.

Join the canvas course

 

location_on Burnaby Campus & Online

Seminar room location and zoom link will be provided in the Canvas course.

You are also welcome to utilize the resources in the Canvas course at any time, as the seminar is recommended but not required.

Read about the rest of our staff 

Registered Psychologist #2558

Shona is a Registered Psychologist who trained as a Clinical Psychologist in Oxford, U.K.. She is dual citizen who immigrated to Canada when she was 9 years old, previously living in South Africa, Thailand and Malaysia. She predominantly uses a Human Givens and a CBT approach and is a specialist in treating traumas and complex mental health disorders. She uses a strength-based solution-focused model, working collaboratively to help people understand their difficulties and learn different strategies to interact with them. She is humbly aware of her white privilege and is passionate with facilitating people to reach their full potential within a caring and empowering environment.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


