Bursaries are a supplemental source of funding for students with demonstrated financial need; that is, they should not be treated as your primary source of funding.

Bursaries are available to Canadian and International students.  You should be aware that you may not be awarded a bursary every term. Due to the high volume of applications received each term, payment of funds may not occur until the middle of the term of application.  We encourage you to plan accordingly.

To qualify and maintain your eligibility for a Work-Study placement, you must:

If you are in a per term fee program (that is, your tuition is not calculated on the number of units you are enrolled in), you must:


If you are in a per unit fee program (that is, your tuition is calculated on the number of units you are enrolled in), you must:

Please note:  You do not need to specify the individual bursaries for which you want to apply.  If you are eligible, you will be considered for all available bursaries.

For a complete listing, check out our online Scholarship, Awards, and Bursaries database.

Students in Specialty Programs can apply for bursaries.  Funding may come from Financial Aid and Awards (FAA), your program’s department, or both. Departmental bursary funding is only available if your department has provided funding for such bursaries.

The application you submit through your Student Information System (SIS) is used for the following assessment:

Assessment for Financial Aid and Awards (FAA) Bursary Funding

Funding from FAA’s bursary program does not cover the cost of the higher tuition fees for Specialty programs.  The maximum allowable tuition expenses that are included in your FAA Bursary assessment is equivalent to research-based tuition fees.

While bursary funding is not guaranteed, we encourage students to apply each term as financial circumstances can change. 

If you are a TSSU member (Teaching Support Staff Union) with children under the age of 13 (or over 13 in the case of special needs) you may be eligible to receive funding from the TSSU Member Childcare Fund. TSSU membership is retained for two semesters beyond the last appointment as a TA, TM, Sessional Instructor or ELC/ITP Instructor.  Current TSSU members may apply to the TSSU Membership Child Care Fund each semester. 

The application is specific to this Fund and may be found here: TSSU Childcare Fund Application.  Eligibility requires both current membership in the Union (membership is retained for two semesters beyond the last appointment) and that one has children under the age of 13 (or over 13 in the case of special needs). For disbursement in that semester, applications must be received by the end of the third week of the semester.  TSSU decisions as to disbursements will be made by no later than the seventh week of the semester. Students will receive disbursements as a bursary. Non-students will receive disbursements as taxable income. The terms of reference are determined by the TSSU, and information provided in the application will be forwarded to the TSSU for disbursement decisions. Disputes as to amounts of an award are to be directed to the TSSU.

Late applications will be accepted, but disbursement will not occur until the following semester.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram

Phone 778.782.6930
Fax 778.782.4722
Email fiassist@sfu.ca

