I 

Book now

You can now book appointments online.

Book now

Health & Counselling offers free, confidential, time-limited counselling support to all registered SFU and FIC students, from any campus. The counselling team provides initial consultation and assessment, information and referral, workshops, crisis support, safety planning, and individual and group counselling to address various concerns. Counselling services are provided by Registered Clinical Counsellors, Registered Psychologists, and their professional student-trainees. There are also specialized counselling options available.

Health & Counselling offers brief, short-term counselling with sessions typically scheduled two to four weeks apart. 

Average attendance for brief counselling is three to four appointments and depending on circumstances, additional appointments may be available in consultation with your counsellor depending upon need.

Common concerns that may be addressed in brief/short-term therapy may include:

Read more about brief counselling

Schedule a Rapid Access / Intake Appointment

If you're looking for mental health support, like counselling, book an appointment online or call the front desk and ask to schedule an intake appointment. Within 48 business hours you will be matched with the next available clinician.

Before your appointment, you will be asked to complete a short questionnaire regarding your concerns and request for support. Then, during your 30-minute appointment, the mental health clinician will ask some questions to clarify what you would like help with and will review your questionnaire with you. They will then talk with you to identify a goal and an action plan of support including resources to best accommoadate your concerns. This may include:

If you are referred to another resource outside of Health & Counselling, the Clinican will provide support and assist you in accessing appropriate community resources and referrals.

Are you a returning client?

You are still encouraged to schedule a rapid access/intake appointment by calling the front desk or booking online. If you are looking for specialized counselling options, then you can book with the provider as required.

Book now

 lightbulb Did you know: At your rapid access/intake appointment you can express your preference for counsellor gender, language, background, and more.

Explore specialized counselling support options:

Monday to Friday

Appointments can be booked up to 48 hours in advance by phone 778-782-4615 or online (coming soon).   

Read about student experiences accessing mental health supports in our Counselling Services blog series, This Being Human: Stories of Hope and Resilience. Read now

Single Session Counselling Follow-up

You may be scheduled in a 30 or 50 minute, in person or remote, single session appointment to follow-up with your concerns presented during a rapid access/intake appointment.

At this appointment, the clinician will work with you to identify a detailed goal and action plan for addressing your support needs and creating change, which may also include being referred to additional resources such as short-term counselling, group counselling, or longer-term counselling in the community. 

Examples for why a single session follow up may be scheduled include: managing academic stress and anxiety around an exam or project, relationship issues with parents or partner, coping with a recent break-up, or skills for enhancing mood or sleep.

Short-Term Counselling    
   
When needed, Health & Counselling may offer brief/short-term counselling (one to four sessions) sometimes scheduled 2 to 4 weeks apart. 

Brief/short-term counselling is goal-oriented in nature and active participation in the process is essential for progress, change, and growth. At the beginning of your sessions, you will discuss the goals you would like to accomplish and you will be asked to provide your counsellor with feedback regarding service along the way in order to get the most out of your sessions.

Specific concerns well suited for short-term counselling include:  various kinds of anxiety (worry, social, test), stress, mild to moderate depression, adjustment and transition to university, acculturation, family and relationship concerns, loneliness, identity concerns.     

Following short-term counselling you may be referred to a group-based program, longer-term counselling in the community or other campus and community based supports.  

FAQ's

Group-based programs can help you develop skills, manage distress, and build social connections.  It can feel intimidating to join a group, but you will quickly discover you are not alone in your experiences, and you will gain collective support in a compassionate and productive way. Research shows that group-based programs can be even more effective than individual counselling. Some things to note:

Browse groups now and ask questions during your consultation appointment or at your next doctor's visit. more

My SSP is a service contracted by the university. The service is available 24/7 with access to professional counsellors as well as an extensive digital library of mental health content like virtual fitness sessions and self-administered assessments.  SFU sudents are invited to call or chat using the app, or arrange for short-term counselling with a My SSP counsellor by appointment. Learn more

Many counselling programs and groups are available in the community. Some are free, some offer lower cost student rates or a “sliding fee scale.”  Your counsellor at Health & Counselling can provide a list of counsellors and psychologists in private practice.

Explore more community resources. View options now

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


