The SFSS Women’s Centre at SFU grew out of the Simon Fraser Student Society’s Women’s Caucus, which held its first meetings in 1968. The Women’s Centre first opened in 1974. Some of our key early issues included childcare, access to birth control and abortion, and sexual assault support.

Currently, the SFSS Women’s Centre is a department of the Simon Fraser Student Society . We are funded both by the SFSS and the Graduate Student Society.  We aim to offer a safe space inspired by our five-point mandate, and we hope that you want to join us in our commitment to oppose to all forms of oppression.

We guide our work, the services that we provide and how we treat one another from the Women’s Centre five point mandate. The mandate is a set of principles we all agree to follow and it is proposed and reviewed by the Women’s Centre Collective. 

The Women’s Centre is:

Regardless of your orientation or identity, the Women’s Centre is a space that is dedicated to providing education and services to all visitors, including allies. So, feel free to stop by anytime to ask us questions, access our library, eat your lunch on our couches, or just say hi to staff and volunteers.

The Women’s Centre provides services to students of all genders, including:

*Note: We do not prescribe/carry medications including birth control, and we do not have childcare available here.*

The women’s centre offers to our students an All Genders Resource Area: Open to folks of all genders! Here you can find our helpful Coordinator and Resource Assistant, an amazing intersectional library with over 5000 resources, as well as crisis referrals and peer support. We have a couch for you to hang out on, as well as a microwave and kettle. You can also find some of our specialty outreach items, such as free pregnancy tests, safer sex supplies and menstrual supplies. This area is open from Monday to Friday from 9am to 4pm.

Common Room: SUB Level 2,  Room 2220 (Monday- Friday 9:00am – 4:30pm) 

Lounge: SUB 2110 (Monday – Friday 9:00am-10:00pm) 

Sign Up for Our Newsletter

Monday – Friday
10am – 4pm

For all media inquiries, please contact mediainquiries@sfss.ca.

SUB 3100
8888 University Drive
Simon Fraser University
Burnaby, BC, V5A 1S6

