mobile only

At the Global Student Centre (GSC), International Services for Students offers an array of social events aimed at fostering connections among international students at SFU, cultivating an inclusive global community on campus, and celebrating intercultural diversity at SFU.

Open to all SFU students, the GSC events are catered specifically to students from international pathways, including international undergraduate and graduate students, study abroad and exchange students, and any other newcomer students from outside of Canada.

A key part of your success at SFU is in creating a supportive community around you. Our campus is home to students from various cultural and linguistic backgrounds worldwide. We're truly a global hub. Don't miss out on the opportunity to connect with your peers from all around the world.

Please refer to our GSC Calendar for our lounge opening hours and events schedule.

Learn about support services for international students available at the GSC.

Join SFU International Services for Students to make intercultural and global connections over food, activities, and prizes.

You will have an opportunity to:

Global Connect - Nacho Social

Date: May 22, 2024

Time: 12:30 pm - 2:30 pm

Location: Global Student Centre (AQ 2013)

Cost: Free

In collaboration with Creative Collective (SFU Health and Counselling) and the Global Student Centre, "Meet, Greet, and Eat" is a safe and inclusive space for students to hang out, meet new people, eat lunch together, and participate in fun and creative activities, including crafts and games. 

All students are welcome, and all activities are optional. You will need to bring your own lunch but we will supply all materials so you can enjoy doing crafts or simply hang out and connect with others. 

Dates & Activities

Time: 12:30 pm - 2 pm

Location: Global Student Centre (AQ 2013)

Cost: Free

Join us to map your possibilities for summer work. Whether you are looking for your first job, or are ready to apply for a high-level role, this mix & mingle will introduce you to resources at SFU, and strategies for work searching.

The session will be drop-in based, allowing flexibility for attendees. You can come and go as your schedule permits.

Summer Job Search Strategies

Date: May 15, 2024

Time: 12:30 pm - 2:30 pm

Location: Global Student Centre (AQ 2013)

Cost: Free

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram

Livechat
778.782.4232
intl_advising@sfu.ca

