I 

This group is a safe and confidential space for racialized students to connect and share. The intention of this group is to create a sense of community and collective healing space for us to bring—and show—our love, care, kindness, compassion, cultural practices and knowledge to support each other and take care of what happens within ourselves as we navigate our racialized experiences. 

Though our identities and experiences may bring different perspectives, the intention of this space is to listen and support each other. Together we will explore strategies to reconnect and strengthen resources for our wounds to begin healing. Session topics vary and take place on Zoom.

Upcoming Sessions

Register now

Questions? Indigenous students please contact Jennifer at jennifer_reandy@sfu.ca. All other inquiries - please contact Monique at moniquew@sfu.ca.

Registered Clinical Counsellor
moniquew@sfu.ca

Monique is a recent immigrant from Hong Kong after being an international student here for over a decade. Cantonese is her mother tongue; Mandarin and English are her additional languages. Her professional interest lies in the role culture and race play in our being, including mental health, gender and sexual orientation. Her practice philosophy is that everyone is the author of their stories. She believes human connection is the basic ingredient for healing. Her counselling approach empathizes the mind-body connection through the lens of cultural humility, somatic experiencing, narrative therapy, and mindfulness practice.

Registered Clinical Counsellor
jennifer_reandy@sfu.ca

Jennifer is a registered clinical counsellor working with SFU’s Indigenous Student Centre (ISC). She works from a braided practise that honours Indigenous knowledge, strength-based person/community centered approach and relevant, respectful, mainstream therapeutic orientations that strive for holistic balance (emotional, physical, spiritual, intellectual). She believes in the importance of wrap-around care, especially supporting connections with Elders and cultural teachings, as well as exploration of identity development. She is aware of the impacts of colonization and intergenerational trauma while recognizing the resilience and wellness in communities and culture. Her work is grounded in Indigenous ways of knowing that stress the importance for reciprocity, relevance, responsibility and relationships.

Tricia-Kay Williams has a BA degree in Psychology from the York University in Toronto O.N. and an MA degree in Counselling Psychology at the Adler University in Vancouver B.C. Tricia has extensive experience counselling individuals and families and is skilled in treating: Trauma, Anxiety, Transitional/Career and Relational issues. She is also an active community and social services professional who worked for some years as a Residential Youth Worker. Tricia is an advocate for anti-racism that affects BIPOC individuals and consults with organizations to foster a more anti-racist approach. Tricia is the owner of a counselling practice called Metamorphose Counselling and is the host of a YouTube channel called Meta Transitions.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


