I 

Hi-FIVE Movement started in 2013, with a lot of evolution and events occurring over the last decade. Hi-FIVE was originally used as an acronymn but has since taken on its own meaning and identity at SFU. Below is a list outlining some of our history and what we've done - including some things you may or may not have seen around campus already.

In 2013, we passed around a journal to encouraged students to open up share their experiences and common struggles with mental health like depression, anxiety and grief.

View our previous volunteer recruitment video from 2014, and learn what past opportunities for volunteers have looked like.

The yellow bench, which now lives in the AQ building, serves as a permanent symbol of mental health awareness and of SFU's vision for a vibrant stigma-free community. The Friendship Bench is a non-profit organization that aims to get people talking about mental health.

On January 26, 2016, SFU President Andrew Petter unveiled the Hi-FIVE plaque to recognize the first permanent stigma-free space at SFU located in the AQ Courtyard on the South Side across from SFU Art Gallery on the SFU Burnaby campus.

You may notice signs with our old logo on doors of SFU staff and faculty, and this is the legacy of the previous Hi-FIVE team. They created a Pledge to Elimnate Stigma across campus and distributed posters and stickers to those who created safe spaces to discuss mental health.

Read the pledge here

Hi-FIVE's aim or call to action is to eliminate stigma towards those who are experiencing mental health distress or illness (now or in the past). We asked the SFU community to join us in taking the pledge, and respect and embrace anyone experiencing mental health distress or mental illness.

I am committed to the following regarding those who experience or have experienced mental illness or mental health distress including myself:

Explore your beliefs about mental health and enroll in our Canvas course. You can also connect with us on social and get involved.

Learn more

SFU has a variety of support options available for students. See below a comprehensive list of resources available at SFU and in the community.

Learn more

Read our Executive bios and learn more about who we are as individuals and what we're bringing to the team.

Learn more

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


