I 

Hi-FIVE is student-run and student-led. We work with staff at Health & Counselling to learn and get support and we work together to have important conversations across campus. Get involved by joining the movement - there are a lot of ways to help eliminate stigma on campus.

What do Hi-FIVE Volunteers do?

What are some of the benefits of volunteering for Hi-FIVE?

Want to volunteer or learn more? We love expanding our team! Send an email to hifive@sfu.ca

This opportunity is recognized on the Co-Curricular Record (CCR), an official university document that tracks your co-curricular involvement at SFU. Learn more.

We regularly host events as a chance to destress, connect, and learn with others. Part of destigmatizing conversation is about creating opportunities to have important conversations about mental health and well-being so keep an eye out for upcoming events! See what's happening

We share helpful tips, prompts, or resources about mental health stigma reduction and awareness and we also ask for your feedback and input about certain topics. Connect with us us on Instagram to be part of the conversation. Follow us on Instagram

Explore your beliefs about mental health problems. You will learn facts about common mental health conditions (i.e. anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia), and gain a better understanding of ways you can help reduce stigma and support others. Please note: The course is undergoing updating as of Summer 2022. Enroll now

We can contribute to the movement and reduce stigma every day by creating opportunities in our own families and friend groups to prioritize and talk about mental health and well-being. We don't have to be experts about mental illness but we can listen and learn why it's important to reduce stigma in our communities.

Read our Executive bios and learn more about who we are as individuals and what we're bringing to the team.

Learn more

SFU has a variety of support options available for students. See below a comprehensive list of resources available at SFU and in the community.

Learn more

We've been on campus for awhile. See what we've done and what's led us to where we are by reviewing our past events and successes.

Learn more

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


