I 

We are a student-led group that works directly with SFU Health & Counselling to destigmatize mental health and encourage access to supports and services across the university and beyond.

Quick Navigation

We are SFU students from many different faculties and we are passionate about mental health and reducing stigma. By having open, relevant conversations with students and inviting others to do the same, we hope to shed light on just how common mental health concerns are so students struggle less alone and find support as they need it. 

Learn more about our team

We meet, we host, we chat and we create a supportive community together.

Despite discussions surrounding mental health increasing over the years, the “job” is not done. Reducing stigma is ongoing. We value and encourage open conversation and authentic dialogue, and aim to create a safe space for students to learn more and share with us and each other. 

Stigma around mental health often prevents people from seeking treatment or talking about their problems. Through events, workshops, and authentic conversations we aim to make students feel less alone and comfortable enough to find support if – and when – they need it.

We do and host things like:

Get involved

We follow this set of values in our planning, programming, and relationships with each other and our community:

Compassion

We recognize and appreciate that reducing stigma can be harder for some people and communities than others.

Openness

We aim to always be authentic and vulnerable in our discussions.

Humility

We strive to always be learning and open to learning ways to support, listen, and encourage others.

Determination

We will keep talking about mental health and let the conversation evolve and grow as we evolve and grow.

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


