F T I

Looking for a place to study, relax or eat a snack between classes? There are various spaces across all three SFU campuses for Indigenous students to utilize, so come visit us!

Located on the 2000 level of the Academic Quadrangle, the ISC Burnaby Space opened its doors to students in 2014. This space offers students access to a kitchen, computer lab, study/lounge space, as well as the Elders Room.

Much of the ISC’s core programming for Undergraduate Students takes place in this space.  
 
Hours of Operation: Monday to Friday, 8:30am - 4:30pm

Located next to Saywell Hall on the 3000 level of the Academic Quadrangle, the ISC Expansion Space opened in Spring 2023. This space offers students access to a kitchenette, computer lab, study/lounge space, as well as a meeting room.

This space offers greater resources and support for Graduate Students.

Hours of Staff Support: Monday to Friday, 8:30am - 4:30pm
This space is accessible to Indigenous students after hours! If you are an Indigenous student interested in accessing the space after hours, please reach out to askisc@sfu.ca.

Looking for a quiet place to study? Somewhere to meet for a group project? Or a room to attend your virtual class? The SFU Library has a room available for you. This room is first come first serve for Indigenous Students only, located in the W.A.C. Bennett Library Room 2114.

Library Hours of Operation

The ICRC collects books, articles, websites, and audio-visual materials on Indigenizing curriculum and Indigenous pedagogy, in addition to post-secondary curriculum resources. These materials centre Indigenous approaches to teaching and learning, and support the work of Indigenizing and Decolonizing curriculum at SFU. The ICRC collection policy provides more information on what can be found in the Centre.

Library Hours of Operation

Contact Ashley Edwards, Indigenous Initiatives and Instruction Librarian, with any questions.

Are you a HSCI student major or taking a HSCI course? This is a quiet study space for Indigenous Health Sciences Students, with free printers, computers, and ample study space for your educational needs. BLU 9860 is accessible 24/7 via security FOB and door code. 

To obtain access to this space visit the FHS Dean’s Office (Blusson Hall, Room 11300) to provide your SFU ID and fill out the requisition form (name and email) with the receptionist. FHS will pay for your security FOB. Please contact Geron Malbas, FHS Student Engagement Coordinator, at gmalbas@sfu.ca for more details on access and for the door code.

Located on the 8000 level of the Education Building, the Faculty of Education's Indigenous Gathering Space offers students space to connect with your peers.

For more details about this space please refer to the Office of Indigenous Education.

The Indigenous Garden is for all students, faculty, and staff to gather and reflect on the displacement and dispossession of the stewards of these lands that has taken place for us to be here. The Garden supports our responsibilities to remember and honour Indian Residential School survivors, intergenerational survivors, their families, and communities. 

For more details about this space please refer to the Office of Indigenous Education.

The FNMISA is dedicated to creating a safe space and programming for the members of the FNMI community at SFU. This space is an opportunity to gather with community, attend cultural events, and other culturally relevant activities.

To access the space please reach out to board@fnmisa.ca for the door code.

Hours of Operation: 7 days a week, 9:00am - 10:00pm

This gathering space will be located at the Strand Hall Annex on Burnaby Mountain. The facility will host a large ceremonial hall for hosting special events of up to 300 attendees. It will also include a dressing room, an Elders room, a seminar room, a wellness room, makers' space and a intergenerational Indigenous peoples’ lounge.

Attend the Open House on September 12, 2025 at 2:30pm

Learn More

As identified in the 2017 Walk This Path With Us Report, Call to Action #3 aims to “reinvigorate long-delayed plans for creating a culturally appropriate ceremonial hall and space. The Aboriginal Reconciliation Council’s (ARC) recommendation has been that this ceremonial space should serve as a cultural hub for the use and education of all SFU community members and visitors.

Located on the 5000 level of the Surrey Campus, the ISC Surrey is a designated study space for currently enrolled Indigenous Students. The space offers access to a kitchenette, printer, study/lounge space, as well as academic drop-in services, wellness and cultural programming. 


Hours of Staff Support: Monday to Friday, 8:30am - 4:30pm
Indigenous students can access the space afterhours via passcode entry. Please email askisc@sfu.ca to learn more.

The ISC will host a dedicated space for Indigenous students at SFU’s downtown campus. This space will offer students access to a kitchenette, computer lab and study/lounge space.

Located on the first floor of Harbour Centre, the space is open to Indigenous and non-Indigenous students and community members.

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


