F I  

Graduate Studies is located on the ancestral, traditional and unceded territory referred to in Skwxwu7mesh (Squamish) as Lhuḵw’lhuḵw’áyten – (Burnaby Mountain, Burnaby, BC). We respectfully acknowledge the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səl̓ilw̓ətaʔɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Congratulations on being accepted to graduate school at Simon Fraser University! We look forward to supporting you on your research journey.


In addition to the resources available to all graduate students found under our Awards & Funding, Graduate Students, Community Guide, Professional Development, and News and Events sections of our website, we have collated additional support (including scholarships) available specifically for Indigenous graduate students.


Dorothy Cucw-la7 Christian (Secwepemc & Syilx Nations)
Associate Director, Indigenous Policy & Pedagogy
On leave until April 1, 2026

Academic Support: Hannah Buteau, Academic Graduate Student
Support. Email: gsupport@sfu.ca

Cultural Support & other student services: Kaylena Ryan, Associate
Director, Indigenous Student Centre: Email: askisc@sfu.ca

Scholarships & Awards: Rachel Dawson or Stephanie Santoso. Email: gradawards@sfu.ca

SAGE: Nicole Manson, Indigenous Academic & Student Liaison in the Faculty of Communication, Art & Technology (FCAT), Email: fcat_indg@sfu.ca

General Graduate Studies (will help to connect you with the right person): gsindig@sfu.ca

Topics you may wish to connect with Dorothy may include:

SFU Indigenous Student Services is a space on Burnaby campus for all current undergraduate and graduate Indigenous students. Their website includes an events page which promotes workshops and cultural activities.

Learn more

SAGE is a province-wide, inter-institutional, peer-support/faculty-mentoring educational program. The program supports Aboriginal students to make significant educational and social change using research, Indigenous knowledge, and community-oriented approaches. 

Learn more

The OIP was established in 2009 (as the Office for Aboriginal Peoples-OAP) with the mandate to take the lead on implementing the Aboriginal Strategic Plan at Simon Fraser University. Now under the lead of the Indigenous Council Office, the OAP also provides resources such as a directory of Aboriginal Contacts.

Learn more

The FNSA is an independent student-run organization for all self-identified Aboriginal, First Nations, Inuit, Métis, and Status/Non-Status (FNMI) students here at SFU. Join their email list to learn about upcoming events: fnsa-board@sfu.ca.

Learn more

Students in the Indigenous Living-Learning Community are able to live across Residence in building types that best fit their academic and personal needs. As a Canadian Indigenous student in this community you will connect with other Indigenous students and build community through peer support, mentorship and leadership development opportunities.

Learn more

To manage your third-party sponsorships at SFU, please contact Student Accounts through SFU Student Services: student_accounts@sfu.ca

You can find additional funding through the following agencies. You must apply with them directly.

 

Below are two sources of funding through SFU that are specifically for Indigenous graduate students. For all of the awards and funding offered through SFU, please visit our Awards + Funding pages.


Terms of Reference

Updated: September 2024 / GUSE006

Indigenous Graduate Travel Award
This award provides financial support for Indigenous graduate students for the travel and/or research component of their research. Indigenous or “Aboriginal” is defined by Canada’s 1982 Constitution as people identified as First Nations, Métis, and Inuit peoples of Canada. Students look for and apply directly for this award in the Graduate Awards System.
  

Terms of Reference

Travel Report

Upon completion of travel, successful applicants will need to submit the following within two weeks to the Graduate Awards Assistant: gradawards@sfu.ca

A concise Travel and Activity Report, written in language suitable for the general public. Contents and/or quotes from the report may be published in Graduate Studies promotional material. If you do not wish for your travel report to be published, please indicate so.

The following could be included in your report:

Terms of Reference

March 2024

January 17, 2024

January 17, 2024


                

                
                    Kalaya is a MBA student in the Beedie School of Business, Three research keywords: Holistic, Empowering, Frustrating (CN Graduate Award)
                
            

January 02, 2024

January 02, 2024


                

                
                    Tara is a doctoral student of health sciences and a recipient of the SSHRC scholarship. Three keywords of research: Indigenous research ethics/ethical processes; Indigenous health research; social theory
                
            

January 18, 2024

January 18, 2024


                

                
                    Candice is a MBA student in the Beedie School of Business. Three keywords of research: Innovative, Indigenous Resilience. (BMO John Ellis Graduate Scholarship in Indigenous Business and Leadership Annual Award)
                
            

More Indigenous Student Stories →

you're participating in, or event that others might want to attend by completing this form


Submit your profile information →

April 12, 2023

April 12, 2023


                

                
                    Introducing Business Administration PhD student, Jordyn Hrenyk. Watch the video to learn more about Hrenyk's journey, experiences and studies.
                
            

April 12, 2023

April 12, 2023


                

                
                    Introducing Social Psychology PhD student,Tiara Cash. Watch the video to learn more about Cash's journey, experiences and studies.
                
            

April 06, 2023

April 06, 2023


                

                
                    Introducing Curriculum Theory & Implementation Education PhD student, Michelle Sylliboy. Watch the video to learn more about Sylliboy's journey, experiences and studies.
                
            

January 31, 2022

January 31, 2022


                

                
                    Introducing Health Sciences PhD student, Harlan Pruden. Watch the video to learn more about his journey, experiences and research.
                
            

February 14, 2022

February 14, 2022


                

                
                    Introducing Beedie School of Business IBL-EMBA student, Kacheena Nayhowtow. Watch the video to learn more about her journey, experiences and studies.
                
            

March 16, 2022

March 16, 2022


                

                
                    Introducing Individualized Interdisciplinary Studies PhD student, Spencer Greening. Watch the video to learn more about his journey, experiences and studies.
                
            

 

Indigenous leaders and educators come to SFU to enhance their knowledge and skills in order to benefit their communities. Indigenous students take classes in every Faculty at SFU.

Watch the video recording of this webinar and learn from Mike Segwalise Myers of the of the Seneca Nation during a discussion with Dorothy Cucw-la7 Christian, Associate Director, Indigenous Policy & Pedagogy. Elder/knowledge keeper Mike shares how his Seneca/Haudenosaunee knowledge is at the center of community development projects he is currently involved in within the historical landscape of colonialism.


Learn more about Mike Segwalise Myers


Watch the video recording of this webinar and learn from Lorna Wanosts’a7 Williams of the Lil’watul Nation of the interior of BC during a  discussion with Dorothy Cucw-la7 Christian, Associate Director, Indigenous Policy & Pedagogy. Williams is a highly respected Elder, Knowledge Keeper and Scholar in the international, national, and provincial spheres of influence.

Learn more about Lorna Wanosts'a7 Williams

Watch the video recording of this webinar and learn from the faculty members and Dorothy Christian as they discuss what it means to serve on a committee for Indigenous grad students as a non-Indigenous person.

Learn more about the panelists

Watch videos of Indigenous SFU researchers discuss how they engage with Indigenous Research Methods in practice. Dorothy Christian is one of the featured speakers.  Learn more and watch the discussions


Watch the video  

Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology

The Bill Reid Centre

The First Nations Language Centre

Intellectual Property Issues in Cultural Heritage (IPinCH)

Institute of Aboriginal Peoples' Health

Indigenous Research Institute

Beedie School of Business Programs

Faculty of Communication, Art and Technology

Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences

Faculty of Education

Faculty of Graduate Studies
Maggie Benston Centre 1100
Simon Fraser University
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, B.C.
Canada V5A 1S6

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


