F T I

Indigenous Student Centre
Simon Fraser University
8888 University Drive
Burnaby, BC, Canada, V5A 1S6

Phone: 778-782-6929
Fax: 778-782-5682
General inquiries: ask_isc@sfu.ca

Hours: Monday to Friday, 8:30am–4:30pm

The ISC provides supports and programs to currently enrolled self-identified Indigenous students at SFU. If you would like to set up a meeting with the ISC staff, please feel free to reach out to the contact information below or drop by any of the ISC locations to connect with an ISC staff member.

The ISC Team look forward to welcoming you upon your admittance to SFU! Until then, the Indigenous Student Recruitment & Admissions Team is here to support youwith tours, admissions guidance, application assistance and more.

Learn how to connect

Jessica La Rochelle
Stó:lō, Okanagan, Trinidadian
Director, Indigenous Student Services
isc_directors@sfu.ca

On Leave until November 2025

Audrey Heath
Gitxsan
Coordinator, Indigenous Administration & Events
AQ 2003.2
aheath@sfu.ca

Message me about Monthly Lunches at iscproj@sfu.ca or for marketing support at isccomms@sfu.ca!

Visit the Directory of Indigenous Contacts for a full listing of Indigenous contacts on campus.

Katrina Haintz
Hwlitsum
Coordinator, Indigenous Student Life
AQ 2003.1
khaintz@sfu.ca

Reach out to me about the ISC Elder's Program or your Elder Request at iscelder@sfu.ca.

Treena Chambers
Métis
Coordinator, Indigenous Student Life
AQ 3145.2
treena_chambers@sfu.ca


Connect with me about the ILLC or Indigenous student staff opportunities.

Kim John
Shíshálh
Coordinator, Indigenous Student Life
AQ 3145.3
kjohn@sfu.ca

Come to me for information on Peer Cousins, Career Programs, or IUPP students can reach me at iupp_help@sfu.ca

Katie Pearson
Shíshálh
Coordinator, Indigenous Student Life
SRYC 5306
katie_pearson_2@sfu.ca

Message me about Cultural Connections or Surrey Service Partner Programs.

Jasmin Glaw
Algonquin
Coordinator, Indigenous Student Life


On maternity leave until December 2025

We are here to support all self-identified Indigenous (First Nations, Métis & Inuit) students at SFU. Feel free to reach out to any of the Indigenous Student Life Coordinators to get connected with supports, learn about resources available to you, or have a conversation about your university journey. Beyond this, each coordinator also has various ISC programs and supports they can more directly support you with.

Jennifer Reandy
Cree
Indigenous Clinical Counsellor
SRYC 5304 (Tues-Fri)
jennifer_reandy@sfu.ca

Tanu Gamble
Haida, Tsimshian
Indigenous Clinical Counsellor
AQ 2003.3 (Mon-Wed)
tanug@sfu.ca

If you would like to book an appointment with an Indigenous Clinical Counsellor, please email iscwell@sfu.ca.

Beans
Poodle, Australian Sheepdog
Director of Snuggles
AQ 3144


Calcifer
Coast Salish Domestice Short Hair
Playtime Coordinator
AQ 3144

To be named...
Cavapoo
Wellness Coordinator
SRYC 5300


Solo
Mini Australian Shepherd
Land-Based Activity Coordinator
AQ 3144


8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


