F T I

The Indigenous Recruitment and Retention team is here to support creating a culturally safe and valuable employee experience for Indigenous talent within our organization. Their focus is to help you navigate the whole employment journey, right from applying through to your professional development.

How does your organization demonstrate commitment to supporting Indigenous communities and promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace?
We acknowledge the unique contributions that First Nations, Metis, and Inuit Peoples bring to enhance health care. We’re continually innovating new ways to improve the experience of both Indigenous candidates and current employees. Some examples: Increasing recruitment outcomes- Creating recruitment process that holds the spirit of Indigenous cultural safety throughout to increase representation of Indigenous talent at Fraser Health. Establishing retention infrastructure -Fraser Health not only wants to hire Indigenous talent, we want to support successful careers that promotes cultural safety, and reflects the aspirations of Indigenous Peoples who choose us as their employer. Create a culturally safe workplace -Reflective of all the calls to create change for Indigenous professionals, we seek to improve how employees experience employment by providing access to all Fraser Health employees access to pathways to increase understandings of Indigenous cultures and histories.

What opportunities or positions do you have for Indigenous students?
There are currently 1600 vacancies available across our hospital and community-based services, supported by a dedicated team of over 48,000 staff, including medical professionals and volunteers. These opportunities are open to Indigenous candidates, providing them with a chance to positively impact the health and well-being of our communities. There are currently 1600 vacancies available across our hospital and community-based services, supported by a dedicated team of over 48,000 staff, including medical professionals and volunteers. These opportunities are open to Indigenous students, providing them with a chance to positively impact the health and well-being of our communities.

Are there specific skills, qualifications, or academic backgrounds that you are seeking in potential Indigenous candidates?
Depending on the position, it is essential to ensure that all qualifications are met and clearly listed on your resume. Certain roles may require specific credentials, such as a valid driver’s license, access to a vehicle, or passing a typing test. Ensuring these qualifications are highlighted on your resume will help you stand out as a suitable candidate

Please outline any mentorship, training, or professional development programs that your organization offers to help Indigenous employees thrive.
Fraser Health offers a wide range of training, education, career planning, and leadership development programs, including the innovative "Creating the Fire Within" program that integrates traditional Indigenous teachings with specialized leadership skills tailored for the healthcare sector.

Does your organization contribute to the broader Indigenous community through partnerships, initiatives, or philanthropy?
Yes, we actively expand and forge partnerships, cultivating relationships with post-secondary institutions, Indigenous employment and training organizations, and community contacts to improve access to employment opportunities for Indigenous Peoples at Fraser Health. This includes collaborations with programs such as Saset, Access, and Steps (MNBC's Skills Training).

As one of the largest employers in BC, Fraser Health offers numerous opportunities, including personalized conversations with recruiters for Indigenous candidates (First Nations, Métis, and Inuit). Additionally, Fraser Health supports its employees with Cultural leave, allowing time for ceremonial and cultural events that foster connections to Indigenous heritage and language.

Please reach out to Justine if you are considering a career in health promotion and wellness!

Email: Justine.blanco@fraserhealth.ca
Phone: 226-332-6128

Learn More about Fraser Health

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


