F T I

The ISC offers a variety of resources for Indigenous students to support academic success. This includes connecting with an academic advisor; accessing tutoring; and writing, learning, and research support.

Drop-in academic advising hours are available for currently enrolled Indigenous students on Tuesdays or you can contact Silvia (myadv6@sfu.ca) to book an appointment. 

This undergraduate service is a great option if you are: 

A newly admitted student;

Undeclared with fewer than 60 units; 

Wanting to declare, or wanting to change your major; or 

Experiencing academic difficulty.

If you have more than 60 units and are declared, you should visit your departmental advisor. Please visit the academic advising website for more information.

More Information

Tuesdays (weekly)
2:00pm to 3:00pm
AQ 2002, Burnaby Campus

Mondays (bi-weekly)
2:00pm to 3:00pm
SRYC 5300, Surrey Campus
 

Silvia Serpas-Hidalgo, Academic Advisor
Academic Advising
myadv6@sfu.ca

Are you looking for a place to get some work done, access academic support as needed, AND socialize with peers? That's the sort of environment that Julia, Ruth and Ashley are creating in their Thursday Library Drop-in. Ruth specializes in learning supports, Ashley specializes in research support, and Julia specializes in writing support. At least one of them will always be available during the drop-ins and happy to chat about your academic assignments. 

Tuesdays (weekly)
11:30am to 1:30pm
AQ 2002, Burnaby Campus

Thursdays (bi-weekly)
1:00pm to 2:00pm
SRYC 5300, Surrey Campus & Zoom

 

Ashley Edwards, Librarian
Indigenous Curriculum Resource Centre 
avandijk@sfu.ca

Julia Lane, Writing Services Coordinator
Student Learning Commons
julia_lane@sfu.ca

Ruth Silverman, Learning Services Coordinator
Student Learning Commons
rsilverm@sfu.ca

Cynthia Wright, Coordinator & Learning Specialist
Student Learning Commons
Surrey Campus
cawright@sfu.ca

Chloe Riley, Undergraduate Engagement and Student Success Librarian
SFU Library
chloe_riley@sfu.ca

For Graduate academic support inquiries, contact:

Hannah Buteau, Academic Graduate Student Support Specialist
Faculty of Graduate Studies
gsupport@sfu.ca

Learn More

Dorothy Cucw-la7 Christian, Associate Director  (on leave)
Indigenous Policy & Pedagogy
Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies 
gps_indigenous@sfu.ca

Get connected with the ISC Tutoring Program to be paired with a tutor for extra assistance with coursework.
For additional questions about the Tutoring Program contact askisc@sfu.ca.

Learn more

8888 University DriveBurnaby, B.C.Canada V5A 1S6 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


