F T I

Health Promotion leads and facilitates systemic action to create healthy settings, enhance health equity and build community capacity for student mental health and well-being at SFU. Read more

Let's build a campus where health equity, mental health, and well-being are valued, prioritized, and advanced through all policies, practices, spaces, and programming at SFU.

SFU’s Healthy Campus Community Initiative is an award winning initiative that has been internationally recognized for leadership in advancing systemic health promotion within a university context. Planning for the initiative began in 2010, and the first iteration of the initiative was launched in 2011 with the intention of taking a systemic, campus-wide approach to create conditions that enhance health and well-being. The initiative is based on the World Health Organization (WHO) Healthy University Framework which involves working collaboratively to create campus environments that positively influence the health and well-being of students, staff and faculty. Read more

Graduate students have various academic and research demands, in addition to other life commitments. Teaching Assistants (TAs) and Tutor Markers (TMs) also have a unique university experience as they juggle life as both a student and a teacher.

 Learn more

Faculty members and instructional staff across SFU are developing resources to foster well-being in learning environments. These resources include in-class activities, teaching practices, content to share with students, and much more.

 Learn more

Well-designed spaces have the ability to positively impact mood, social connectedness, and learning. We work with a variety of partners to enhance the physical spaces on campus to support well-being.  

 Learn more

Academic departments and faculties strongly influence students’ experiences at university and provide a core setting for enhancing student well-being.

 Learn more

Faculty members and instructional staff across SFU are developing resources to foster well-being in learning environments. These resources include in-class activities, teaching practices, content to share with students, and much more.

 

explore

SFU Health Promotion has built a presentation slide deck you can use to share health and well-being information and supports with students at the beginning or end of your class. Contact Health Promotion or learn more about well-being education resources. 

Use this template to explore how you can share links to resources with students within the feedback you provide on their work. 

Adam Dyck creates an inclusive classroom by supporting the declaration of self-identified pronouns in a “pronoun round” as part of introductions at the beginning of the semester. 

Atousa Hajshirmohammadi spends 5-10 minutes of each class to introduce tools and topics related to well-being. Explore a variety of ways to show students that you care and support their well-being and success in learning

Remote learning environments come with their unique challenges. Creating conditions for our well-being will help us be resilient while we navigate these challenging situations. In a post-secondary institution, the learning environment is a central and crucial setting for creating a healthy campus community. Student health and well-being is a key predictor for student learning, success, and retention. 

This is intended to be a draft/work-in-progress list of resources to support SFU FHS faculty in creating a safer and more inclusive university environment for trans, gender non-binary, and other gender diverse students, research participants, staff, faculty, and other community stakeholders. Please send updates, additions, and feedback to travis_salway@sfu.ca and pardiles@sfu.ca. Resources compiled at/after discussion at FC, January 16, 2020. 

To promote social connection between students, try facilitating these quick class check-in activities at the beginning of the hour.

Learn more about how to support students in difficulty, referrals to resources, and tips for taking care of yourself. This is a companion document for faculty, instructors, staff, and TA/TMs to the SFU Supporting Students in Distress Response Guide.

Taking a moment to pause and breathe can help students relax, de-stress, be present, and feel more grounded. Consider sharing self-guided mindfulness resources or schedule them as part of your classes, lectures, seminars, labs, tutorials, etc. Explore these resources, audio/video recordings and downloadable apps. 

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


