F T I

A random selection of SFU students enrolled in Spring 2023 were asked to participate in the Canadian Campus Wellbeing Survey by April 25.

Answers collected are confidential and used to assess mental health and well-being and to identify priorities for institutional-level interventions, services, programs, policies and practices. Each participant who took part in the survey will be entered to win one of eight $100 cash prizes. Winners were contacted individually.

The Canadian Campus Wellbeing Survey (CCWS) is a population-level health and well-being assessment tool for post-secondary institutions that is coordinated by the University of British Columbia. The CCWS allows institutions, including SFU, to learn about the health and well-being needs of its students and to gather feedback on its services and supports. 

The CCWS is being jointly administered by SFU Health Promotion and Institutional Research and Planning.  

On March 28, a random sample of 6,700 students enrolled in classes during Spring 2023 at SFU were asked to participate in the CCWS. 

The survey took approximately 15-20 minutes to complete and was open between March 28 until April 25 at 11:59pm PT. Survey answers were automatically saved and respondents were able to return to continue at a later time. Once the survey was completed and submitted, the responses were recorded.

Students who took part in the survey were automatically entered into a random draw for a chance to win one of eight $100 cash prizes. You did not need to fully complete (even partial completion will be accepted) the survey to be entered into the draw. Winners will be contacted individually.

Students were asked to voluntarily and confidentially answer questions in the following areas: 

Results collected from the survey will help shape the programs, services, and initiatives that support SFU students to be well and succeed in their academic journeys and beyond.  

Your feedback will help SFU better understand your experiences and be able to compare the results with those from fellow participating post-secondary institutions.

Your feedback will help SFU assess the mental health and well-being of students and gain valuable information to identify priorities for institutional-level interventions, services, programs, policies and practices.

Personal information is collected under the authority of section 26(c) of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act for the sole purpose of this survey. 

Since the results shared with SFU are in statistically aggregated form only, and are not linked to any identifying information, there is no way for the information to be linked to individual students. Individual responses or respondents will not be shared with SFU nor with any external organizations (i.e., Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC)).

The survey is voluntary and all data will be kept confidential.

Results of the survey will be reported in statistically aggregated form only, without identifying individual students.

No part of the responses will be linked to individual students or student records

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


