F T I

Graduate students have various academic and research demands, in addition to other life commitments. Teaching Assistants (TAs) also have a unique university experience as they juggle life as both a student and a teacher.

Cultivating the capacity for resilience can help build skills and insights to remain effective in the face of adversity or opportunity. 

Each week there will be something for your own well-being, and something you can do with your students to create a Healthy Campus Community.

As both graduate students and as Teaching Assistants (TAs), you play important roles in navigating your own academic journeys while supporting the students you work with. Balancing demands and other responsibilities can be stressful and challenging. That’s why Health Promotion has adapted a Thriving In Graduate School online training to complete at your own pace. This online training will help you gain resilience skills, identify boundaries in your role as TA helping students, and overview conditions for well-being in learning environments. 

Thriving in Your Role as a TA online training is currently in a pilot phase is currently in a pilot phase. We encourage graduate students to take 5 minutes at the end to evaluate this training. This training supplements the Thriving In Graduate School workshop.

For additional information, or if you have any questions, take a look at the FAQs page or reach out to health_promo@sfu.ca.

Join the training

Graduate students receive weekly emails with resources and well-being exercises to try for themselves, and with their students in class (for TAs).

Book a workshop (1 to 1.5 hours) for graduate students who will learn more about:

Interested in having your department learn more about our program? Book a workshop or contact us by completing this survey.

Book a workshop by filling out the survey

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


