I 

Studying in a new country has many challenges. At Health & Counselling, you can find relevant support options as an international student, including one-on-one support, or groups to connect and meet with others.

Find individual support

Meet other students in a group

Studying in a new country is a big transition. Whether you're looking for assistance with managing school stress, finding housing, understanding documents, or understanding Canadian services, the Transition Case Manager is available for one-to-one support. Schedule an appointment

 Connecting with the Transition Case Manager is only available to students currently residing in BC.

The Transition Case Manager helps with:

When connecting with students, the Transition Case Manager will listen to the student's case, offer support, connect the student with resources, and hope to facilitate positive solutions and outcomes. The Transition Case Manager will also explain that there are limitations to what can be done, so that expectations are reasonable.

The Transition Case Manager is here to support students from international pathways (both undergraduate and graduate) and their transition into and out of SFU. Transition can mean many things as students can face an array of challenges while at SFU. Some of the areas the Transition Case Manager can support students in are:

Book now

The Transition Case Manager’s physical office is located on the Burnaby campus, but the service is accessible and available to any SFU student on any campus. Appointments can operate virtually or in-person.

Transition Case Manager
ricky_tu@sfu.ca

Mon-Fri
9:30am -  12:30pm
1:30pm -  4:30pm

"I learned how to improve my talking skills, how to communicate, and do a presentation since it is difficult for an international student."

"The Transition Case Manager recomended me to different resources on campus which helped me build a better mental health and learning condition."

"Ricky really helped me during my tough times at SFU. He is the most generous one."

"Ricky is a great listener with great energy and applicable strategies."

Burnaby campus: 778.782.4615
Vancouver campus: 778.782.5200
Surrey campus: 778.782.5200

Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.

Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University


